---
layout: post
title: How to Grade Writing and Other Neat Things
---

Yesterday I attended another one of my University's fun-filled <a href="http://www.ncsu.edu/grad/preparing-future-leaders/teaching-programs/fit/index.php">Fundamentals in Teaching workshops</a>, this time - one that covered the tricky world of how to effectively give feedback to writing assignments in a way that actually helps the student improve. I'm sure that anyone who's been through a US High School English class has had the pleasure of doing "peer review", which often turns out to be little more than an opportunity for you to watch another student circle every grammar mistake they can find, along with a fairly empty "GOOD JOB" tacked on to the end. No matter how much red ink they covered the paper with, it would probably fail to give you any idea on how to make the paper any better when it was time to turn in the final draft - it certainly is a good thing that the teacher did some feedback before that time, right?

For the workshop, we went over the different types of feedback that one can give on any written project, be it an essay, a lab report, or a research paper (like the one I've started writing!). Comments scale both in the breadth of what they address and the methods that they use to critique. For example, some mistakes, like spelling and grammar, are small and obvious, so it's easy enough to either write in the correct answer or to circle it and remind the writer to go back and check it out. While this kind of thing makes you feel good (oh look at all the errors I fixed! I sure am a good proofreader), it provides little to no help to the writer, since if they wrote a poor paper anyway, the only thing you did was point them in the direction to clean up something that needs a total rewrite anyway. The workshop wasn't saying that it was bad to point those things out, but that one needs to keep their priorities in mind when correcting a paper. If the ideas are sound, and the only issues are grammatical, then it's very appropriate to point them out. But it the main arguments are flawed or the style is inappropriate, it is best for both the grader and the student if the comments are focused on pointing this error out more than the little things.

As a computer scientist, I liken it to writing and compiling a program. A compiler will quickly find all of the stupid mistakes like misplaced semicolons or malformed conditionals, but the flaws of the program <i>logic</i> can only be found by carefully looking past all of those low-level details and trying to grasp the big picture. Just like a compiler can point out a missing semicolon without understanding the purpose of the program, a proofreader can point out misspelled words without actually reading or comprehending the paper. If all the proofreader can find are syntactical errors, then they aren't giving the student their full attention, and that's not a good quality to possess either as a peer reviewer or an instructor. Either that, or the paper is perfect.

It was a great workshop, and I'll be going to a more general workshop on grading next week, which will be my fifth teaching workshop of my career! Even though I've essentially been to them all now, I see no reason why I can't attend them once a semester.
