---
layout: post
title: Day Zero
---

Well... here I am.

Yesterday we had our orientation for New Graduate Students at NC State. Because I had done my Undergrad at the same university, none of what they were saying was particularly new. However, it was really a refreshing change of pace to see the speakers talking about the academic excellence of our institution rather than the athletic accomplishments (though I'm surprised that nobody mentioned our research blog [The Abstract](http://web.ncsu.edu/abstract/)).

So I guess there's no question about it now: I am a Ph.D. student.

A lot has happened, so a bit of recap is in order: I've been running a picto-blog/webcomic thing for about two years now, and I've decided to close that down for two big reasons. Firstly, the fact that I had to draw something or produce some picture before I could write a blog entry was starting to become too restrictive for me. Each page of the site started with a 500×500 pixel image, followed by lengthy bit of writing which could very well have absolutely nothing to do with the image that was supposedly the centerpiece of the site. It was inflexible, frustrating, and artificial.

Secondly, I was tired of the ugly, static, hacked-together PHP that I called a website. It was nice, because I had built it up myself, but quite frankly, it was hideous. I really like this new blog's style – the WordPress theme "Twenty Ten". It may be the default, but it's low-key, minimalistic, and easy on the eyes. It looks crisp and professional, so it suits a Ph.D. student, don't you think?

It kind of took me by surprise how quickly my Undergraduate life came to an end. I was so focused on getting my degree that I ended up missing out on a lot of my youth. I don't suppose there's any point in regretting that now, but since I'll be in school for another four (or five (maybe six)) years, I don't have to say I completely failed to have my own "college experience". As our speaker told us at Orientation, it's important not to take life too seriously (something I'm very guilty of). So I made it a point to visit the New Graduate social event last night to eat, meet, and generally have a good time. It probably could have been better organized, but I got to hang out with some pretty interesting characters.

The point is, the GradBlog is a project that's designed to take all of this – the fun and the toil – and put together a living record of the life that goes with the decision to pursue the Doctoral Degree. I'm an adult now, living on my own with all sorts of responsibilities to fill and adventures to have. So the motto here is to document everything from the first day of class to beyond the day I get tenure! My professor always reminds us that research is about writing, so if anything, making it a goal to write thoughtful blog entries will help me not only keep my mind on the career I've chosen, but give me a healthy distraction that I can indulge in from time to time.
