---
layout: post
title: Advanced Degrees
---

One big controversy in American higher education is the idea of grade and degree inflation. While there are a [number of notable exceptions](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/List_of_college_dropout_billionaires), our culture seems to place such an emphasis on having a college degree that it makes it seem that, if you *don't* have one, you're unfit for anything except a day job at the grocery store, and essentially unemployable. So as it seems, nearly everyone has a degree in something - computer science... psychology... heck, I stopped by my bank and the gentleman there had a degree from NC State in Agriculture hanging behind him.

I don't believe there's anything wrong with more people having gone to college. But think of it from the perspective from a senior in computer science: *"Golly. Just look at all the other graduates from my program. We've all got degrees from one of the best universities in the field... how am I going to stand out?"* Students may have substantial work experience, or have studied abroad. Others may have double or even tripled majored.

The rest of us go to grad school.

I read an article in the *IEEE Potentials* magazine saying that the Master's Degree is the New Bachelor's Degree, and to an extent, that's true. With all of the students entering the workforce with their B.Sc. or B.A., several are holding off on entering the uncertain job market to pursue a Master's degree for two years with the hope of an extra 10 or 20K on their salary when they graduate again. Our University offers a coursework based, non-thesis master's degree which is essentially taking a few more advanced classes. Since these aren't research-intensive programs, the University doesn't fund these students, and actually ends up making quite a bit of money from the program.

I like to make fun of my friends who are pursuing the non-thesis programs, but there are some issues with this new paradigm. Firstly, one of the points of the Master's program is *doing the Master's Thesis*. A thesis is more than a report or a paper... it's a testament to the fact that the student did a project that **broke new ground** and was done primarily as an **independent effort**. The reason why a Master's degree is supposed to come with a greater salary is because the student exchanges work experience in the industry for some equivalent of work experience in the University. This work experience is usually done as a research project that has a substantial contribution to science. However, if they are just taking more classes, then the degree and its responsibilities and privileges do not necessarily reflect the capability of the student to perform to that higher standard.

The Ph.D. dissertation is an even more profound accomplishment. Not only is the project done independently, but the project is also discovered independently. At NC State, the Oral Preliminary examination is essentially a research proposal given to the University, outlining the motivation, the methods, and the contribution, while the dissertation discusses the results and the questions left unanswered. Even though the Ph.D. is primarily considered a milestone for future faculty and researchers, it also shows that the student is capable of independent and critical thought towards a non-trivial goal. Provided the exam committee is fair and the University is of good standing, to have an advanced degree conferred shows more than that a student is "smart", or can "do well on tests". It shows a level of motivation that deserves the advanced placement of a Master of Science, or the much-sought after title of "Doctor".
