---
layout: post
title: Academic Social Networking
---

During my travels of the internets, I came across a little website called [Academia.edu](http://academia.edu) which markets itself essentially as [LinkedIn](http://linkedin.com), but for scholars. I've had [my own profile page](http://ncsu.academia.edu/BarryPeddycord) for a while now, so I figured I'd share my own views about the site... what it is, what it offers, and what a difference I think it could make if it can live up to its mission.

So Academia.edu has one thing that it really has going for it, the very restrictive and distinguished '.edu' top-level domain. Even though the [rules](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/.edu) for the '.edu' TLD require the owner to actually be an accredited University, Academia.edu was registered before those rules were put into place, so it was grandfathered in, despite not being an affiliated institution. This causes a number of folks to cry foul - many fear that the site is scam, tricking folks using its TLD to submit their information and their publications with false promises of networking and visibility - especially newer scholars like grad students and fresh new faculty members.

Personally, I don't think there's any reason to call foul like that. The site seems to be fairly legitimate, and there are a few dozen folks from my own University who have set up accounts and played around with it a bit. It has a number of features that, if the site had more users, could really prove to be helpful both to the new and the established academics.

The site starts off like any normal social networking site: you provide your name and e-mail address, and then fill out your institutional details such as your University, department, position (grad student, postdoc, faculty). Then you get to the cool parts: you provide your research interests, and the scholars in your institution that you work with.

At this point, you've already got what I think is the best part of the site: the home page main stream. Based on your research interests, you will see academic papers that have been recently been uploaded to the site, along with open positions for researchers and faculty at various institutions around the country (around the world?). This is particularly helpful for the fresh new Ph.D. student looking for material for the upcoming reading session or jobs to pursue after getting that pesky defense out of the way. Also, the ability to follow the work of colleagues helps keep academics in touch with the few folks in the world who have intersecting research interests (since it's no small fact that Ph.D.'s have *very narrow* interests).

But for a website featuring the banner of Academia, it seems to be missing one very important detail: **peer review**. Anyone can join the website. Anyone can upload a paper. And due to the nature of the site, it makes it very easy to misrepresent oneself with impunity. Imagine the feeling when that young grad student finds just the paper he needs to springboard from, only to find out that it was rejected from the conference it claims to be from, or that it was actually plagiarized. Self-publishing is awesome for casual material, but academic works are best left to the centralized publishers, I think.

Another issue, they encourage their users to upload their papers, which may run afoul of the copyright policies of specific universities, conferences, journals, or whatever. I'm all for freedom of information, and I'd love to submit my papers there (hypothetically speaking, since I don't *have* any yet), but I think it would be better to only allow abstracts and titles, with links to the journal database that the paper is officially located in. That would provide a simple form of proof that a paper really was published in a peer-reviewed journal.

All of this on the surface, to the skeptical man, makes it look like a scam - I can see where that viewpoint comes from. But despite its shortcomings, I would encourage more folks to make profiles and be active on the site, since I think it's going in the right direction (and making excellent use of its '.edu' TLD). The user experience is clean and crisp, and fits the theme of academia. It's a young project and just needs a little love.
