---
layout: post
title: Playing Cards Across the Ocean
---

I love card games. Particularly trading card games. There's a certain joy that I get from carefully poring over my deck editor and trying to figure out how to prepare that *perfect* deck that will allow me to stomp my opponents in the ground as I bask in my own glorious victory. Except that I usually end up losing and tweaking my card setup after every single match. But that's OK, because I have fun! And even though it's enjoyable when playing against the computer, it's even more amazing when you're playing with other people!

Problem is, even though there are a plethora of card games, there aren't a whole lot of them that are available under Free and Open Source licenses. Last year, though, I randomly came across a project called <a href="http://wtactics.org">WTactics</a>, a card game licensed under the GPL that's based on the <a href="http://wesnoth.org">Battle for Wesnoth</a> universe. It's very interesting to see what is essentially a "fan-game" for a "Free game", since this is exactly the sort of spin-off material that I absolutely love to see in the Free Software and Creative Commons works. Not only is the source code Free, but so are the resources, the concept, and the canon. This gives interested parties a bunch of rich resources to work with when attempting to create something of their own.

So, WTactics has been in development for a while, and has been a considerably steady investment of time, money, and energy towards creating fresh new content around a familiar theme in the open source world. While it has a lot in common with the Wesnoth lore, it has started to develop a distinctive style of its own, both in its small-team development philosophy and its vision for where the story of the game should go. The real meat is the original rules concept, though, and while it's been through multiple rounds of discussion, the geographical distribution of our developers has made it very difficult to do the playtesting that it needs to ensure that the rules are fair, balanced, and (most importantly) fun. So since we're all Linux-geeks, why not create a program to span the ocean and make it possible to play?

Well, we've been trying to do that for a while, but multiple projects have come and gone after various bouts of energy and excitement. Last night, however, Snowdrop and I started exploring a little program called <a href="http://gccg.sourceforge.net">*gCCG*</a>, the Generic Collectible Card Game engine, which is an open source virtual table top that is very, *very* extensible. After playing and exploring the environment for a while, I dug into the code, developed a module, and put our cards in the engine. It looks pretty good. I intend to do some cleanup and packaging so it can look even better.

On a side note, when we were playing around, we spent the whole time on <a href="http://mumble.sourceforge.net/">Mumble</a>, an open source audio chat room, which was pretty amazing. I think that a great part about how "easy" it was to use gCCG was thanks in part to the way that being able to talk out loud facilitated teaching, rather than with the frustration of trying to type out every little thing we tried to say. So that was lots of fun.
