---
layout: post
title: Reading sessions
---

Ah, **Reading Sessions**. One of the single most important rituals of a Graduate Student's life, right next to fixing instant ramen. For those of you who aren't familiar with the concept or the terminology, a reading session is where a group of students get with their advisor and one student presents a recent paper from a conference or journal to the group, usually done on a weekly basis.

Reading sessions have two key benefits to Grad Students. First of all, it allows you to keep up with the state of the literature (whether you want to or not). Even I, the hopeless academic, don't consider it to be particularly fun to go through and read every single academic article in my field. It would be useful, but reading a paper takes a certain level of mental preparation before it can be done effectively. Having the group reading session allows everyone to prepare for the paper and to discuss its content, its approaches, and (most importantly) future work that could lead to more grants and problems for the group to work on.

Secondly, it helps give students practice at giving a technical presentation. It's ideal for a researcher to be able to do substantial research, get it published, and then get the opportunity to go to a conference and present it. The presentation has a number of challenges that set it apart from the writing of the paper. First of all, you don't have an infinite amount of time and your audience doesn't have an infinite amount of patience. If you're too scant on the details, you end up wasting their time since you didn't introduce anything worthwhile. If you end up too heavy on the details, you lose and bore your audience. You have to keep it light enough to be understandable, but technical enough to be interesting. This applies to conference talks of course, but maybe even more importantly, it applies directly to the dreaded thesis defense.

I had the privilege of joining my group's reading sessions from my first week of summer vacation (I actually missed the first one since nobody told me they existed yet). Like joining a new IRC channel, I spent the first few times just lurking and observing the culture, but now that I've been with them a while and have started building up some of my own background, I feel less intimidated to share my opinions at the table with everyone else. Being able to raise good questions and comments about other people's publications is a skill that comes from (and builds) the critical thinking needed to do good research.

Most folks will probably only join a reading session after they've already found an advisor, but I would definitely encourage that anyone who's even considering research should talk to faculty and ask if they can join in on the sessions. It's a no-commitment exercise that helps expand the mind, introduce the practices of academic discussion and critique, and can help build relationships with faculty leading to potential thesis advisors down the road.
