---
layout: post
title: Catching Up Again
---

I haven't been able to post recently since I've been really bogged down with research. My advisor is convinced that I am well on my way to writing my first technical paper. Considering that this is my first semester of the Ph.D. program, I think I'm doing pretty well for myself if I'm able to pick up this much momentum this early. It's been an overwhelming shift in responsibilities and expectations, going from undergraduate coursework to graduate research, but just as soon as I convince myself that I'm in over my head, I remember that there's really nothing else that I'd rather be doing.

One of the cool things about the research group that I'm working with is that since we are specializing in *systems* instead of *theory*, we don't just write papers that nobody will read. We build prototypes, use our papers to explain them, and then go on to package and maintain the software that we develop so that it can be used to solve real problems. While sometimes doing the "software engineering" gets in the way of exploration and experimentation, I think it's worth saying that papers are nice, but tangible products are just as important. Figures and descriptions of algorithms and procedures can't match the value of a fully developed, packaged, and tested application, since the reader doesn't have to invest additional resources into implementing the ideas described in the paper. I suppose it's a good thing that my programming muscles haven't atrophied quite yet.

One thing that I need to do is take charge of my research career. A good research team should be driven by its students, since they are the ones in the field, answering questions and solving problems. My advisor can't hold my hand and walk with me through this. It is *my* research, after all. I've only just started, of course, but at some point I need to be able to realize when I have a good idea or when I have made the progress necessary to prepare a paper without having to have it suggested to me by my advisor. I need to stop looking for validation from others, and be more confident about my work. If I want a Doctorate, I need to be convinced and be able to convince others that I'm the very best at what I do, and I can't do that if I can't go forward on my own two feet.

In my group, it's *us* - the Ph.D. students - who are responsible for our own research. Since we take on the duties of managing our projects, we are given the opportunity to write and publish papers that honestly and accurately reflect our skills and contributions.
