---
layout: post
title: Bad Lip Reading
---

This weekend, I really wanted to cook some Manicotti, but unfortunately, it was all sold out, so I settled on making Lasagna again. It was still good. Apparently I didn't let it cool long enough, since once again, it plopped all over my plate without me being able to cut it into squares. Failure. Delicious Failure. So instead of talking about my dinner, I'll talk about the music I was listening to while I cooked it.

Today I read an [article on Slashdot](http://yro.slashdot.org/story/11/10/23/0434208/universal-uses-dmca-to-get-bad-lip-reading-parody-taken-down) about a Youtube star that I had never heard of getting one of their videos taken down for copyright something or other. Needless to say, I decided to check out their stuff since not only had they incurred the wrath of the evil recording industry, they also managed to get mentioned on Slashdot, so they were at least worth visiting for a bit.

Didn't take long for me to realize that this was [a good idea](https://www.youtube.com/user/BadLipReading). Bad Lip Reading has a very interesting parody style where instead of taking a popular song's rhythm and melody and changing the lyrics, they create a completely different song by building lyrics around the lip-synching of the stars in various music videos. It's quite amazing how different that [their remixes](http://youtu.be/YjaZNYSt7o0) sound from [the originals](http://youtu.be/1AJmKkU5POA)... yet the most amazing thing of all when the [artist responds to the video himself](http://youtu.be/c5DvQgIKe2M).

This is yet another example of the the talent and creativity that the remix culture promotes, and today's technology makes this sort of organic artwork more feasible than it ever would have been with older media. Artwork isn't created in a vacuum. It's created when it's inspired by the works of other artists. Unfortunately, the letter of the law considers works like these to be considered "copyright infringement" and attempts to silence it. But even when they manage to shut down a video, it rises back like a phoenix from the ashes, reminding the world that nothing can keep it true creativity down.

While the bold will continue to create in spite of the law, others are discouraged from creating out of fear of retaliation, and this is where the real problem of copyright comes from. Not that artists are attacked for sharing their ideas, but that fledgling musicians and writers stop themselves from doing what they want to do to share their ideas with the world, under the pretext of "protecting the interests of artists". I've given up on trying to change the system, which is why I support the [Creative Commons](http://creativecommons.org) movement as strongly as I do. By creating a repository of creative content that can be passed around, built upon, shared, and remixed by a community of creators, the restrictive pool of isolated content held by big media will whither and die as it is confined by the gate of Copyright Law that it worships, while the Creative Commons will blossom and grow as it is tended to with love and care of the artists who appreciate the freedom to create and enjoy works of art.

Wow. I really went into purple prose territory there. It's late, I guess.
