---
layout: post
title: Lightning Talk
tags: blog
---

I guess I caved into peer pressure this evening at my University's weekly LUG-meeting. No, I didn't do anything I'd be ashamed to admit - quite the opposite in fact... I gave a *lightning talk* for the first time. It was definitely an interesting experience, and since it's been a slow blogging week, I figure I should write about it while it's still fresh in my mind.

So a lightning talk is a really quick and informal lecture (about five minutes or so) where you get up, talk about something cool, and then sit down to give someone else a turn. Basically, it's a really informal way to discuss something you've done or read about, hopefully in a way such that folks who are interested in the same thing will be willing to meet up to you after the talk and get your name and business card so they can discuss the subject at length later. It exposes your interests and current work, making it easy for folks to find collaborators. It also makes a good way to fill a group meeting with material without one person having to write and plan out an entire hour-long program, and that's pretty valuable as well.

So my talk was on the [OpenBTS](http://openbts.sourceforge.net) GSM basestation project that I worked on over the past summer. I talked about what GSM is, what the motivation of OpenBTS was, and how various folks have used it to do all sorts of interesting things. Since OpenBTS is what inspired me to continue working on research, as well as to get my Ham license, I figured it was something I could quickly run down without a whole lot of time to prepare for it. I gave a lukewarm talk, but considering that I actually volunteered myself to talk about it, that made it pretty cool.

I've been kind of entertaining the idea of doing a full discussion of OpenBTS at the [Triangle Linux User's Group](http://trilug.org), but the timing has been pretty poor and all, so when I had the opportunity (and with a little goading from the others) I decided to get up and spill my research project in the same way I do to just about every other person I meet... except this time I did it standing up in front of a lot of people. There's a certain mystique to that situation, you know?

Lightning talks are a great way to bring an interest group together, since it lets members (especially new members) get to know and introduce themselves to the group, along with what they can offer in terms of projects, and it also allows folks who are more reserved to give a quick little public presentation to get just a taste of that feeling of getting up and talking, in front of a group who is bound to be genuinely interested in your subject and not nitpicking on your style. Public speaking isn't exactly something that is common with computer scientists like me, but when you are exposed to the situation more often (especially when you go out of your way to volunteer yourself), you get experience that can only have a positive effect on your career skills and attitude.
