---
layout: post
title: E-mails
---

I'll never forget the first e-mail I sent to NCSU while I was going through the hoops of Undergradute admissions. I was inquiring about the required mathematics placement test that was required of all new incoming Freshmen, since it had to be done online and I didn't have the Internet at home, I asked about how long it would take me to finish it off. I went through all the trouble of crafting a very carefully-worded e-mail that expressed all the respect and reverence for authority that I could muster. Proper grammar. Proper spelling. A personally selected salutation and benediction. And the response I get?

    it'll take about 20 minutes

No capitalization. No punctuation. I spent nearly thirty minutes writing a professional e-mail and then I get this in response. More than anything, this taught me to be more stingy with my time.

Growing up without Internet access, I was relatively new to the whole world of e-mail and message boards and stuff. And as such, I'm still a little old-fashioned when it comes to all this newfangled technology. I write an e-mail like I write a letter, with all of the care and respect I can fit into it so that my words will be understood by the recipient. I walk into a BBS like I walk into a crowded room. I slowly inch over to the wall, watch everyone, and keep to myself. I don't really see the "online me" as anything other than the "real me".

Whenever I get a very terse e-mail, especially from an authority figure, I immediately cringe, reading it in the worst possible way. I go out of my way to make sure that I use just enough words to make it so that my tone is adequately conveyed and not misunderstood (without using a smiley face, of course, which is totally unprofessional :P). If there are only a few words, it's very difficult to pick that up. Granted, if I see a five word response in all lowercase letters, followed by the ubiquitous "Sent from my iPhone" signature, I breathe a sigh of relief, since I don't expect anyone to punch out a novel on one of those things. But like the comic, a really sort e-mail often comes across as a Bad Thing, whatever it may mean in reality.

I used to think that spending as much time as I did making sure that my e-mails were straightforward, honest, and (most importantly) *human* would be appreciated by the recipients, but I've since lost that mindset, only spending as much time as I do because I just can't bring myself to stop. I look forward to getting a real, personal (as in, not a business-related) e-mail in the same way that some people look forward to getting hand-written letters. With all of the social networking methods of communication now, e-mail has become more of an automated tool for websites to give you bunches of information, and for "official" purposes. Nobody actually crafts an eloquent and pleasant-to-read letter when they can just post on your wall. And I think that's kind of sad.

Oh well. I can keep dreaming, I suppose.
