---
layout: post
title: STARS Celebration
tags: blog
---

This past weekend, I spent the last few days before the new semester in Hampton, Virginia at the <a href="http://www.starsalliance.org/celebration/2012/">STARS Celebration</a>, a conference/planning meeting for students and faculty participating in the <a href="http://www.starsalliance.org">STARS Alliance</a>. STARS is a pretty big project, scaling across dozens of schools from around the country, so one blog entry couldn't possibly cover all of the stuff they do.

*STARS* stands for <em>Students and Technology in Academia, Research, and Service</em>, and is a program for both Graduate and Undergraduate students in computing to participate in a number of Service, Research, Outreach, and Mentoring projects in their schools and communities. Most of the goals of STARS are based around broadening interest in computing by dissuading stereotypes about Engineers and Scientists and promoting the aspects of computing that allow students to establish relevance and build excitement for the field. Whether that involves making games or helping to empower people, the general theme of the initiative is to bring attention to the <em>human</em> side of technology (which has also been a theme of this blog).

As a member of the <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu">NC State STARS Student Leadership Corps</a>, I'll also be working on a project or two over the next year, and I'll talk more about the STARS initiative itself when I give project updates in the form of blog posts. I'm required to write articles on the STARS blog as I participate, and since I'm a regular blogger anyway, I'll be cross-posting between the two venues. So for today, I just want to talk about the Celebration.

It was... interesting. It was unlike any academic conference I'd ever been to, and was certainly designed with the purpose of getting students excited about participating in the program. Lots of music and lots of energy made it reminiscent of a pep rally, and I think that's what they were going for. The STARS Celebration is focused on bringing together the students and faculty from all of the involved schools, presenting the work from the previous year, planning the projects for the next, and training the incoming students to the Alliance, Grad and Undergrad alike.

STARS students do a lot of amazing projects. Some of them do outreach events, teaching middle and high  school students how to write programs or build robotics. Some go a step farther, training teachers so that they can teach those things to their own students when STARS volunteers move on to different projects. Some worked in public relations, breaking into the social networking space and looking at the impact of published materials in terms of online engagement. Students in charge of evaluating the impact of STARS itself go forth to collect data from the participants in order to measure the effectiveness of the program on students, schools, and communities. There were over 100 posters from 40 schools being presented, so it's a good thing I took some pictures of them so I could look them over in the quiet of my lab.

However, the purpose of putting a conference together in the first place is twofold - to present results from projects and to facilitate <em>networking with colleagues</em>. While there were a number of activities designed to drive networking, it seemed that they packed the conference so full of content, it was very difficult to organically interact with other participants. As a shy and reclusive computer nerd, one thing I really enjoy is getting to talk with people over dinner. I like for my meals to be a time to relax and have a low-key conversation with my colleagues, and this has been the first conference I've been to where every meal had a presentation going on.

That being said, one of the more interesting parts of the conference was the networking game <a href="http://snagemgame.com/index2.php">Snag'Em</a>. Snag'Em is a game where each player is given missions to hunt down people in the conference who have certain tags (such as Ph.D. student, music-lover, NC State Grad). They then collect points when they meet them and enter their ID through the game interface. Unfortunately, because I didn't have an always-on mobile phone or tablet, it was extremely hard for me to participate in the game because I could only enter player IDs and get new missions at night when I got online - though I certainly enjoyed connecting other players, helping them out.

On that note, the lack of a smartphone also made participating on the Conference Twitter Feed rather frustrating as well, since I couldn't follow or add to the feed during the conference (once again, I had to wait until I got online at night). I've wanted a tablet for a while, but this conference has really made me want to get one so I won't miss out at my next conference.

The Celebration was interesting. It wasn't what I was expecting, and that doesn't have to be a bad thing. I met some great people, saw some amazing projects, and went home with a lot of ideas that I can bring to my own research. I'm most certainly looking forward to the projects I'll get to do with the STARS group at my own University!
