---
layout: post
title: Shelton Leadership Forum
tags: blog
---
Today, I attended the <a href="http://www.ncsu.edu/extension/sheltonleadership/shelton-forum/current-forum.php">General Hugh Shelton Leadership Forum</a> at NC State, a series of talks and presentations from various notable leaders ranging from backgrounds in the industry to the military. The forum is the annual event for the Hugh Shelton Leadership Center, a program partnered with the NC State Poole College of Management going into its 12th year. Inspired and named after the retired <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugh_Shelton">General H. Hugh Shelton</a>, the center focuses on developing partnerships with industries to promote values-based leadership among students at NC State. 

I don't particularly care for the rhetoric of entrepreneurs - which probably explains the reason I went into academia. Considering that one of the core values is on selfless service, the focus on revenue, profitability, and intellectual property leaves a bad taste in my mouth - it's with our College of Management, after all. While I agreed with most of the big ideas proposed by most of the speakers, I consistently found myself in respectful disagreement with them on matters of execution. If I take what they are saying to heart, agreeing with them would require me going against <em>my own</em> core values of sharing, openness, and collaboration. The Open Source ethos makes up a big part of who I am as a developer, scholar, and human being, and it's a point on which I do not compromise.

In spite of the rhetoric, several of the key points from the talk definitely resonated with me. For example, I was able to relate to the way that John Chambers, CEO of Cisco, talked about valuing interpersonal relationships by thinking of the future relationships I would build with my mentors, colleagues, and students. While his overall leadership philosophy boils down to the idea of putting the customers first, mine is focused on putting my <em>students</em> first.

One theme throughout the presentations was that innovators are the ones who go against the grain and take risks in order to make a difference in the world. From that definition of innovation, I definitely have to say that I see myself in that role as I've been essentially forging my own way through the Ph.D. so far. Entrepreneurs don't attempt to compete with the established players in a market - they claim land that nobody has touched to solve problems that have yet to be solved.

"Entrepreneur" is a mindset, not a career. In a way, I see myself as the scholarly equivalent of an entrepreneur - and I don't mean that I'm trying to monetize my research. In the academic world of disciplinary silos, there is a lot of land that is left uncovered and as an interdisciplinary scholar, I see that this land has untapped potential and lots of low-hanging fruit. The ease at which I identify gaps in the research and problems yet to be solved almost makes me feel like venturing into this wide-open frontier is cheating. Adding to a silo is a difficult, but respectable task. Building something new is easy enough to do in practice, but it's risky business if you can't prove to the silos that what you're doing is making a difference in the field.

The world of higher education could benefit from innovative faculty, and I don't necessarily mean that in a business sense. Innovative faculty, in the terminology used at the forum, are those who pursue new ideas that may not necessarily be considered the scholarship and academic pursuits that decide a decision for tenure. Such efforts still have the potential to change the world and make a difference in society, and isn't that the ultimate goal of all research? Academics have a lot of incentives to stick within their comfort zones and publish journals in safe venues where they can guarantee that they will get the academic brownie points needed to rise through the ladder. Is that the kind of scholarship we want to foster?
