---
layout: post
title: Wrapping up the Reading Group
tags: blog
---

Today we had the last meeting of our reading group! While it was the smallest crowd that we had this semester - only six people - it was still a very lively discussion around the implementation, assessment, and merits of service learning projects in higher education. As a student in <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu">STARS</a> and a follower of the Open Source Community, this particular topic was quite near and dear to my heart.

The discussion was loosely based around a 2007 paper on service learning<sup>1</sup> and the ways it affects how students view their own learning. Service-learning refers to learning experiences that involve student participation in civic engagement in order to ground their understanding of course concepts in practice. While it may seem like an odd way to teach, imagine a course in Human-Computer Interaction where the main project is to design a website for a non-profit organization. While HCI could easily be taught in a sanitized classroom environment focusing on theory, by having students go out into the community and attempt to design a website for a stakeholder with <em>real</em> needs, they learn how the theory is applied in practice.

The paper focuses on the idea that students who participate in service learning (in this case, teaching a primary school classroom about science) will move from being externally-regulated to internally-regulated learners. Students who are externally-regulated see the grade or the feedback from a professor as evidence that they have learned the material in a class. This is undesirable, because it represents a perception that learning is something that begins and ends with an instructor. An internally-regulated learner, on the other hand, metacognitively recognizes when he or she has grasped a concept. A key part of service learning is to put students in a situation where they need to become confident enough in their expertise in order to be comfortable with a third party relying on them to get a job done - in service learning, success is more than a grade.

The question that comes up in this case is the issue of assessment. Can a third party legitimately assign or affect a grade given to a student? Do two equal grades on separate service learning represent the same degree of effort? Does service learning fit the A-F grading model at all? All valid questions that came up, many approaches included decoupling the grading from the experience and having the assessment focus on the student's ability to match their experiences with the learning objectives of the course. The point of doing service learning isn't to deploy cheap student labor to issues in the community (such actions would clearly be exploitative), but rather to intentionally align a service project with the goals of the syllabus. Even if a service project ends in a failure, the final assessment should represent what they learned rather than what they did, bringing assessment and accountability back under the control of the instructor.

Our discussion ended up getting a bit off track as we drifted towards institutional and logistical barriers associated with implementing service learning. Despite service being part of the mission statements of land grant institutions, scholarship of service is often not taken into consideration when making hiring or tenure decisions. Given that it's a huge time and energy commitment that has little tangible benefit, this discourages faculty from taking initiative in such projects. When a service-learning project goes right, it can be beautiful, but given the number of actors involved, a misstep could easily result in the entire project blowing up in an underprepared instructor's face with repercussions rippling through all levels of the administration. It's a shame to leave the reading group on such a somber note, but it was nice to explore new topics outside of the previous papers.

When I started this reading group, I did so as an attempt to create an environment where Graduate Students could come together to informally discuss recent research developments in teaching. We marketed the reading group as a "workshop" and made it a part of PFL, but what I really wanted was something more like a "club". When it comes to events, attendance can be chalked up to two main reasons: <em>content</em> and <em>community</em>. "Workshops" draw people in primarily due to the content, which accounts for the large and diverse attendance in PFL's Leadership Development seminars. "Clubs", on the other hand, exploit the idea of a small, close-knit community and support network. For me, my interest generally lies in the community: I use meetings with the LUG to catch up with and get feedback from the people who make up my Personal Learning Network.

The great thing about a Reading Group or Journal Club is that it's a great way to socialize with people over our research projects. While the colleagues in your lab might be better prepared to critique your research, people who are willing to go to a reading group on their own initiative are more likely to be <em>interested</em> in your research. Furthermore, because a reading group doesn't fall into a single lab, the chances of meeting with students from other disciplines is much better - especially around a broad topic such as research in teaching. Of course, the most obvious benefit - and the reason why I started this reading group in the first place - was that it provided more avenues for discussion across disciplinary boundaries. If anything, that was the ultimate metric by which I was gauging the success of my group, and by that measure, the group was a tremendous success. I can't wait to see what the next semester will bring!

*<sub><strong>1</strong>: Scott, A. K., Oliver, J. S., &amp; Knauft, D. A. (2007). Examining the Impact of Service-Learning on College Science Students’ Self-Report of their Learning Styles. <strong>NACTA Journal</strong>, (September), 2–9.</sub>*
