---
layout: post
title: Oh my gosh... it's full of STARS!
tags: blog
---

*This is the first of my required bi-weekly blog posts for the STARS Student Leadership Corps, <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu/people/91/blog/">cross-posted from the NC State SLC Blog</a>. The topic was "New Year's Blog Post", where I was to talk about some of my low-level and high-level goals in STARS and beyond, along with other personal information about me.*

Hello STARS peoples! This is the first entry of my little corner of the STARS Student Leadership Corps here at NC State, and in order to kick things off, we were asked to write a short paragraph about who we were, what we were doing in STARS, and what we wanted to accomplish during our tenure here.

I suppose I should start off with the disclaimer that I actually <a href="http://isharacomix.org">keep a blog</a>, and I refuse to accept the notion that a "short paragraph" can be considered a "blog entry". Others can if they like, but I have standards... specifically a 500 word minimum. So the first long term goal I have is to fill this blog with whimsical prose about my adventures here in the world of STARS, all the while raising the bar on "mandatory blogging". So why <em>am</em> I here?

So far, the project that it looks like I'll be working on is an effort to help train high school instructors to teach a new Advanced Placement course being offered called "<a href="http://www.csprinciples.org">AP Computer Science Principles</a>". AP CS Principles is a pilot program for getting folks an early start on Computer Science, focusing less on Java syntax and much more on building a strong foundation to prepare students for Computer Science. This means rather than trying to give students a grammatical toolbox of boilerplate code snippets to use such as for loops and linked lists, we'll be fostering the development of a more cohesive foundation around basic themes in programming such as the concepts of logical thinking, abstraction, and problem reducibility. Cultivating the intuition to these high-level concepts is particularly key to helping students find their way through our discipline.

The tremendous benefit of this project goes far beyond training <em>local</em> instructors in how to teach this class. If we play our cards right and put enough care into our workshop materials, not only can we produce a cohort of teachers ready to lead the next generation of Computer Scientists, we can develop a workshop resource package that can be deployed by anyone, anywhere so that others can do the same! Given the state of STEM education in general, resources like these are desperately needed, and by making them publicly available, we can provide educators with a tried-and-true collection of resources so that they don't have to start from scratch. Furthermore, in the same spirit that drives the Open Source Way, as they try our package for themselves, they can address the shortcomings in our materials, fix them, and improve the resources for everyone else in the process.

This project is about service to the local community. However, the reason why I'm here... in STARS... in Grad School is to make education more accessible to people across <em>the world</em>. Computers and the Internet have made it possible to scale not just content, but <em>human relationships</em> to an unprecedented level. My research focus is in educational technology, which isn't about making computers that can teach people. It's about <em>utilizing technology to connect people with the resources they need to learn</em>, and part of that is making sure that teachers are well-prepared. Creating storehouses of Open Educational Resources and global networks of teachers and learners... <em>this</em> is what education looks like in the 21st century and beyond.

I want to be a part of that. That's why I'm here, and that can't be expressed in less than 500 words.
