---
layout: post
title: Trying Out Coursera
---

One of the hottest topics in educational research right now is the growing popularity of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) such as the <a href="http://www.edxonline.org/">edX</a> or <a href="https://coursera.org">Coursera</a> initiatives. Basically, a MOOC is an online course offering that delivers free course content from big-name Universities like MIT, Stanford, and Harvard to class sizes of over 1000 people from across the world. They're a revolution in education, creating a lot of discussion both in academic and popular circles about the changing role of the traditional brick-and-mortar University in the wake of this disruptive technology.

Let's just face it. As someone who intends to be a University Professor, I'm obviously biased against any technology that would affect my plans, and MOOCs have the potential to do just that. What is the value in attending an in-state university that requires thousands of dollars in tuition when you can get a quality course offering from MIT for <em>FREE</em>? Where do I come in? What is <em>my</em> value added? Rather than dismissing the MOOC as a silly fad, I've decided to enroll in one during my already-too-busy summer to see what it's like, what works, what doesn't, and where it can improve. I'm taking Coursera's <a href="https://www.coursera.org/course/saas">Software Engineering using SaaS</a>, led by UC Berkley's Armando Fox and David Patterson. It's basically a course that teaches software engineering fundamentals using Software as a Service as its motivating example and Ruby on Rails as the primary langage. Since I need to learn Ruby on Rails, I'm hoping this class will give me an excuse to give it a shot.

I'm currently at the end of the first of a five-week session that briskly goes through the concepts of Software Engineering including test-driven development, Agile methodology, DRY fundamentals, and so on. While the class is free, the instructors have also developed a textbook to go with the class (which they call the "alpha" version) and are using the coursera course as an opportunity to field test their textbook before releasing the official version. In this respect, a MOOC is a great way to crowdsource the testing and revision of courseware before deploying it in a classroom where students have invested their parent's hard-earned money in their education. While I don't want to devalue the effort that the instructors and Community TA's are spending keeping this class running, the pressure and demand for results in a traditional course are understandably higher. In this respect, the instructors aren't exactly working for free, though they aren't being financially compensated.

The course is divided into five discrete modules, paced at one module per week. About 2 hours worth of video broken into 8- to 15-minute lecturettes are uploaded for the students to watch alongside the textbook (which I didn't purchase because I really don't have the money to buy textbooks for classes like these). Each lecture ends with a multiple-choice question that makes sure that you got the main point of the video, and if you have further questions, you can take those to the forum to discuss them with your peers and the community TAs. The forums operate stack-exchange style where participants post questions, get answers, and can comment on those answers. The questions and the answers can both be voted on by the community, allowing for a form of moderation. Every week, the instructors post a freshly-recorded "Saas-Chat" video where they comment on the participation that they are seeing to touch base with the community of students.

Granted, any evaluation of mine would hardly be fair. I have preconceived notions and I'm already familiar with the material. So as I watch the lectures and get ready to do the assignments, I look at the material in a more reflective light - if I was in charge of this course, what would <em>I</em> do? Whatever happens, I'm sure this will be an enlightening experience.
