---
layout: post
title: So... PyCarolinas
---

I have to make a confession. When I first saw <a href="http://pycarolinas.org">PyCarolinas</a> and volunteered to speak, my expectations weren't the highest. Given how my non-engineering conferences have been more satisfactory in recent times compared to the conferences that attract the more technical crowd, I had no idea it would be anywhere as rewarding as it was. As I said in my last entry, there is absolutely no way I can recap it here, so I'll direct you to my <a href="http://storify.com/IsharaComix/pycarolinas-unc-chapel-hill-oct-20-21">Storify</a> to see the livetweets of #pycarolinas. This entry is going to be a holistic account of my experience presenting and attending my first steps into the Python community.

The conference started off on exactly the right note with a keynote by <a href="http://www.cs.unc.edu/~gb/">Dr. Gary Bishop</a> from UNC Chapel Hill, a professor who does research in accessible computing. From the beginning, he gave a passionate talk encouraging us to think about the career we've chosen as computing professionals. He told us about how the <a href="http://tarheelreader.org/">Tar Heel Reader</a> was started as a project to help enable teachers and parents to utilize the Creative Commons images on Flickr in order to develop Free picture books for beginning readers that children would be interested in. While the major book publishers produce books on topics that "neurotypical" kids find interesting, children with developmental disabilities often struggle behind because society does not afford them the same opportunities that they afford "normal kids". In other words, because society expects less of people - not just children - with disabilities, they are held back because of these lowered expectations. This project, and technology in general, empowers teachers, librarians, parents, and friends to produce reading material for vastly different audience.

<blockquote><em>"As computer programmers, we have the power to think, type, and make magic happen... some computer nerd sitting in his office in North Carolina, without any money or permission, has enabled millions of people around the world to read.</em></blockquote>

Those were some very heavy words, and I carried them with me throughout the entire conference. I'm already familiar with that message, but the thing about technology is that it's the only career where you can take ideas, add time, and produce results. Computers and the Internet are overwhelmingly empowering technologies, as they have made human relationships more scalable than ever before.

Maybe it was just the fact that the keynote put me in a good mood for the entire conference, but I've found that conference energy is like a furnace, and if you don't keep shoveling coal in, it's going to die out. Unlike LUG or IEEE meetings, there was an extremely healthy blend of technical and non-technical talks. I learned a lot about Python that I didn't know, such as how to make Iterators and Generators (<a href="http://twitter.com/leafstorm">@leafstorm</a>) or how to do Real-Time Web Programming with Gevent (<a href="http://twitter.com/rick446">@rick446</a>). I came out of this conference with a few new tricks, but that's not why I attend these events.

<a href="http://twitter.com/juliaelman">@juliaelman</a> gave a beautiful talk on the interactions between developers and designers in a team, and <a href="http://twitter.com/david_codes">@david_codes</a> gave one on tools to help gradually introduce new team members to your project - skills that are absolutely relevant in the field yet are not taught at all in the silo'd curricula we have in our Computer Science programs. <a href="http://twitter.com/brianpainter">@brianpainter</a> even gave a talk on how he brought Open Source and Python to his company, which was essentially a construction company, and convinced them to develop tools in-house. The experiences shared by the community demonstrated that these are people who get how their jobs and hobbies connect with other people and the rest of the world, and I had long given up on believing that "techies" - especially techies who were out in the real world - were interested in making these broad, conceptual connections.

I've never been happier to be proven wrong in my life.

I don't know why or how the Python community formed in this way, but from what I could gather from <a href="http://twitter.com/roguelynn">@roguelynn</a>'s keynote on Day 2, I think it's as simple as people being passionate about what they love and eager to share it with the rest of the world. Unlike other clubs I've seen which have a habit of driving out anyone who doesn't fit in with the subculture, the Python community is the most intentional in reaching out and sharing what interests them with their community. I don't know if that's the way it is everywhere else, but that's what I got from this crowd. Maybe it's just because education and fostering a love of making magic happen with computers is such a key part of the Python Ethos. The subject matter isn't what makes a conference successful - it's the energy and the passion of the people attending. It's about the community.

So... about my talk? It was kind of meh. I still spoke too fast and I ended up forgetting to put on the microphone at the start, screwing up the recording. Though in the end, folks seemed to really appreciate the talk I gave despite the fact that Python was only barely related to the material. I was lucky enough to have three teachers who were actively teaching Python give me their feedback on their experiences with teaching, and while they agreed that simply telling students the rules of the language and then expecting them to successfully code is a horrible way to do it, successfully building intuition is something that remains an open problem. The key take-away of my message was that students need relevant problems in order to care about learning to code, and Python's emphasis on creativity and exploration over rigid structure enables students to learn on their own much more authentically than other languages do. Broadening participation in computing isn't about making programming an easier discipline, but making it one that students will be motivated to stick with regardless of the challenges they face. If any community can foster that, it feels like this would be in a better position to do so than most.

Great conference - I'm looking forward to next year!
