---
layout: post
title: Presentation, Success!
---

Well, I've done it. I've presented for the first time at an academic conference yesterday. Once again, this was the <a href="http://fc12.ifca.ai">Financial Cryptography 2012</a> conference being held in Bonaire, and I'm presenting on behalf of my colleague and labmate who couldn't make it to present it himself. I'm happy to say that I believe that I managed to give my presentation without horribly embarassing him, the University, or myself. I haven't done a whole lot of good presentations in my life, but I think this counts as one of the good ones.

The Financial Crypto folks are a pretty laid-back crowd. They tend to hold all of their meetings here in the Caribbean, and I'm not sure whether they do that <i>because</i> members of the organization like to dive, or if it <i>inspires</i> members to dive. There's a fairly large number of divers within the association (and if it's not all that large, these folks certainly are the most vocal). I don't know if it was my confidence with the subject matter, or the fact that the audience I was presenting to was in T-shirts and sandals, but I felt comfortable when I was presenting. I was able to convey exactly what I wanted to, and there was nothing that I wanted to say that I failed to deliver.

That being said, while it was most certainly the talk I expected to give, it may not have been the talk that the audience expected to <i>hear</i>. I'm not a cryptographer, so while I was able to give a high-level discussion of my colleague's work, I wasn't anywhere near qualified to talk about the magic maths that make it what it is. The session that my presentation was scheduled for was actually one of the more technical sessions. There was a lot more low-level algorithmic talk and a lot less high level concepts, so I was a bit out of place. In my experience, papers that introduce a new high-level scheme are far more challenging to present than a case study or a demo-ready system, and since the duty of the presenter is to "sell" the paper, I certainly hope I was able to do that. From the comments I received afterwards, though, at least I seemed to spur some interest his work.

As for the rest of the conference, I've been pleasantly surprised by the large breadth of research that has been presented here. I've seen quite a bit of work presented here that slightly overlaps with some of my own interests, though I don't believe that this will be a conference that I'll make any attempt to target in the future. I really like the security field, and I'd love to start doing things with wireless technology so that I can bring my affinity for amateur radio into my research career.

And this says nothing for my desire and interest to pursue more work in the realm of Computer Science <i>education</i>. In fact, I'm very, very disappointed that I had to miss the <a href="http://www.sigcse.org/sigcse2012/">ACM conference on CS Education</a> that was actually being held in Raleigh <i>this week</i>. It's such a shame I had to miss something that was far more congruent with my professional interests, but I'm quite sure this was a good experience for me to meet other professionals in the security world.

At any rate, I need get back to work on my own paper. Then, I can go to a conference in the future based on <i>my own</i> work. As fun and exciting as this has been, it will be far more <i>fulfilling</i> to go to one on the back of my own merits.
