---
layout: post
title: WP101
tags: blog
---

Well, today marks the publication of the 101st post since starting this blogging adventure. I find it funny that I've actually managed to lose track of how many entries I've written so far. Blogging has already become second-nature to me... I remember back when I started off, I really had to force myself to come up with things to write about, which usually ended resulting in me posting something stupid about my cooking. Now, writing blog entries about my school life, volunteer work, and whatnot comes so naturally to me. I even have a surplus of entries stashed away in my Drafts just waiting to be fleshed out!

So rather than writing a reflection about all the cool stuff I've done for the past year (since I already did that), I was thinking about writing a more forward-thinking post about my future writing. As an academic, I could <em>always</em> be doing more writing.

As of right now, my writings are pretty contained to this blog, but sometimes I wonder if that's a good thing or a bad thing. Let's just face it. I know <em>you</em> read my blog, and I love you for it, but my blog doesn't really start the deepest conversations in the world. And that's to be expected. I don't write on this blog for anyone but myself - it's a creative and therapeutic outlet for me. I used to take it personally when I noticed that nobody was reading my webcomics years and years ago, but now, I don't even care, and I think I'm happier for it.

However, as an academic, I should <em>ideally</em> be writing things that other people will be reading... otherwise, my ideas and research don't really get anywhere, and that's no fun at all. So is there a middle ground between writing to this little <code>/dev/null</code> blog of mine and submitting papers to ACM and IEEE conferences?

I should hope so!

And as it turns out, there is. Many websites, from <a href="http://hastac.org">HASTAC</a> to <a href="http://nten.org">NTEN</a> to <a href="http://opensource.com">OpenSource.com</a>, all allow unsolicited manuscripts from authors with varying editorial barriers to publication. Unlike personal blog posts, these established websites already have a dedicated readership hungry for more content, meaning that for better or worse, whatever happens to be published by you will be read. Whether or not it will be remembered is, on the other hand, a function of how timely and enjoyable it was.

The bar for these kinds of publications is lower than it is for "academic" articles. They aren't peer-refereed and mercilessly shot dead by jealous academics in a double-blind review committee. Editors of these sites want writing that is easy to read and thought-provoking - not unapologetically rigorous. The bar is much lower, giving me more rhetorical freedom and flexibility. The world isn't expecting a top conference paper to show up in their RSS feed. They want something relevant that they can read with breakfast.

As I'll paraphrase from a very inspirational signature I saw on the Chronicle forums, <em>if you're afraid of publishing your thoughts under a pseudonym on the anonymous internet, then you're in the wrong career</em>. This speaks volumes, and has woken me up from my fear of participating in online communities. If I'm so thin-skinned that I'm afraid of being called out publicly for saying something stupid, then I don't see how I would expect to survive in a culture like academia. So I've decided to toughen up, be less of a scaredy-cat, and <strong>WRITE MOAR</strong>.

I don't see why I should be scared. I'm smart. I've got a bachelor's degree. I'm pretty good at computers. I love research, and I'm an honest and upright gentleman. I've got no reason to think I have nothing to add to the discourse. I do. Well, I should, or I'm not doing my job right.
