---
layout: post
title: PKAL and Livetweeting
---

Sorry for the silence lately - my brother came over unexpectedly this weekend and between him, research, and grading, there wasn't much time left for keeping the blog up to date. <a href="http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/SuspiciouslySpecificDenial">I assure you that Minecraft had absolutely nothing to do with it</a>.

Last Friday, if you followed my Twitter or identi.ca feed, you'll notice that I was Tweeting a bunch of nonsense with the #pkal tag. I was at the inaugural meeting of the <a href="http://www.aacu.org/pkal/">Project Kaleidoscope</a> STEM Educators Network in North Carolina. PKAL is an initiative that brings together teachers in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math to share resources, best practices, and novel approaches to teaching, recruiting, and retaining students in these disciplines.

I believe I was the only Grad Student there, seated among professors at various stages of their careers. For a STEM get-together, there were very few computers on the tables... which was very surprising for me. Perhaps it was just a generational thing, but for a meeting focused on modern teaching techniques, I thought the session felt very <em>traditional</em>. The word "traditional" probably shouldn't be considered an insult, but considering how it comes with the connotation that "the way you are doing this is outdated", it makes sense how it comes across that way. I don't know why, but considering the Digital Humanities conferences and the Preparing Future Leaders workshops I've been attending lately, I had some lofty expectations that just weren't met.

However, just because my expectations weren't met doesn't mean that the event was bad or even that I was disappointed. Quite the opposite: while conferences that get me excited are great for stimulating new ideas, conferences like these serve as reality checks that help me think about what I'm doing, where I stand, and what needs to happen for me to make a difference in this field. Two big themes from the discussions I had were on Flipped classrooms and educator collaboration, both of which are particularly interesting to me.

Flipped classrooms are very big in STEM because STEM isn't just something that you can learn by hearing... it's something that you have to <em>do</em>, and doing the work with the instructors available to help builds mastery in a much more supportive environment. We discussed that the best way to solve the problem of getting students to participate in the offline portions of a Flipped environment is to provide multiple ways of getting the material (video, podcast, reading) and then to provide some kind of checkpoint quiz for a student to master before coming to the class (similar to the end-of-video quizzes in MOOCs). By offering multiple ways for students to get the information, the instructor is able to accommodate multiple learning styles. By providing quizzes to help students get feedback on the material without the instructor being present, students are able to gain confidence that they can come into the next class period without being lost.

On the topic of educator collaboration, one thing that was brought up that I had floating in my mind but hadn't formalized anywhere was that while MOOCs and technology have been great at getting education to students, they have usually been based on the efforts of only a handful of instructors. The Open Source community is all about having everyone with the ability to build software making their work available to the world at large. In other words, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cathedral_and_the_Bazaar">if MOOCs are the Cathedral, where is the Bazaar</a>? Something that would be great (that was even mentioned back at THATCamp) would be a "GitHub for courseware". I've said a lot about Open Educational Resource repositories, but just encouraging people to dump their courseware in these repositories isn't good enough. We need something that encourages collaboration between educators in developing syllabi, rubrics, and exercises. If an educator just can't play nice? Fork it! Split it off and take it your own way! One person can't teach the entire world... that's a task too big even for a single institution. I want to see globally distributed, diverse network of educators <em>working together</em>.

I made a conscious attempt to live-Tweet the event, and I'm happy to say that I did a much better job than before. That being said, I also found that by trying to live-Tweet, take notes in my notebook, and <em>still listen</em> to the talk, I ended up being more distracted than I would have been otherwise. I engage best with the material presented at conferences when I sit down, quietly listen to what is being said, and then replay the high points in my mind on the drive home. For me, nearly every Tweet I push is an intentional publication of my thoughts, and when <em>listening</em> to a talk, my thoughts are being violently tossed around by the deluge of new information I'm absorbing. In order for me to craft a Tweet that I'm willing to stand behind, I have to spend a considerable amount of effort disconnecting from the conference to focus and craft something, and even more time trimming it down to fit in the 140 character limit. This is why I prefer writing post-conference blog posts to live-Tweets. Sometimes I feel like a free rider on the backs of those who do make an effort to live-Tweet, because I get a lot from them. But we all have different styles of engagement and reflection, and mine is blogging.
