---
layout: post
title: Playing with Prezi
---

You know what I haven't done in a long time? Complain about technology. Since all the celebrity talks last week came to an end, there hasn't been much to write about because my life is wholly uninteresting. However, as it turns out, I'm going to be <em>presenting</em> at a local conference soon! Based on all the great things I learned over the past few weeks from the Digital Humanities people I've come to love so much, I'll be talking as if I know something about Computer Science Education at <a href="http://blog.pycarolinas.org/">PyCarolinas</a> next weekend. And like every good presenter, I'm going to use something that <em>isn't</em> PowerPoint.

Instead, I'm going to use one of the more popular slide-show replacements known as <em><a href="http://prezi.com">Prezi</a></em>. Prezi is referred to as the "zooming" presentation viewer because rather than using a linear slide deck, Prezis work by flying the camera around an infinite canvas and focusing in on hot spots which serve as the "slides". While it's possible to use a Prezi as a regular slideshow, that seems like an attempt to force the outdated constraints of old technology on a new tool that has managed to break free of those limitations and open brand new doors of creativity.

On a visual level, I like the idea that instead of showing an outline, I can show the entire presentation at the very beginning, zoomed out, and then literally drill down to the individual concepts. Because each concept is now fixed at a point in two-dimensional space rather than a linear sequence, I can convey subtle relationships between each "slide" based on where I am on the canvas. Furthermore, it's very easy to fly back to previous concepts to help reinforce a point - have you ever had to sit through a presentation where the presenter had to go back and forth through his entire slide deck to bring back a figure that the audience wanted to see again? In this case, you can just break out of presentation mode and drag the figure back into the view. Even when material is out of sight, the audience can maintain a spatial perception of where everything they have seen (and will see) is located.

Another feature I love about it is how it's possible to collaboratively edit a Prezi. While it is indeed possible for multiple people to work on a GoogleDoc Presentation, I don't consider people taking turns working on individual slides to be particularly collaborative. On a Prezi, however, everyone is working on the same canvas, able to share resources, comment on one anothers' work, and collectively build something that is more than a "presentation": a cohesive visual artifact.

Imagine the possibilities! Rather than teaching a course from a set of disjoint slide decks, the entire course could be taught from a single Prezi that represents a mind map of every concept in the course - that way when students go back to study, they don't think about whether it was covered in lecture 6 or lecture 8, but which subject it is connected to. It's also very easy to zoom back to older concepts that were covered in previous lectures, but doing so on the same Prezi rather than simply copying the slide over again for the next class keeps the old material in its original, familiar concept. This helps to reinforce the fact that all of the material in a class is interconnected - <em>especially</em> for visual and global learners. And thanks to the collaborative editing, it's possible for students to help build the Prezi themselves, learning by teaching and through creative expression!

Of course, every technology has its flaws, and Prezi has a number of them. One of the most glaring is that it is extremely difficult to do even the most basic alignment. It's hard to make a "template" frame that keeps the text in the right proportions and locations, and since objects don't snap to a grid, it often feels like the poor things are floating aimlessly in space. Though Prezi's creators may be of the persuasion that asymmetry is beautiful, I happen to like consistency, and would love to be able to put identical objects in a straight line when the situation calls for it.

It's also difficult to do things that we take for granted, like change the color of a line, for example. When I click "edit" on my lines, I am given the choice of five colors and no palette from which to create my own. Making text <strong>bold</strong> or <em>italic</em> is unintuitively done by setting text as Title or Subtitle - and it can't be done in the middle of a paragraph. These little things add up and have made my relationship with Prezi a strained one: I love it to pieces but it tries my patience sometimes.

But the most unforgivable crime of all is the fact that it (despite being a fairly young tool) is written in Flash, making it all but impossible to work with on Linux. Because Adobe has dropped Flash for Linux, Firefox can no longer work with it since it rejects the images I upload at every turn. The only workaround seems to be using Chrome, since Google is still maintaining a Flash plugin of its own, turning Chrome into more of an Office tool than a browser (for docs and Prezis). Prezi could have been a great way to promote HTML5, but there's just no accounting for bad taste.

<a href="http://prezi.com/5aebr-srihp1/why-python-makes-a-good-first-language/">The Prezi my talk can be found here</a>. I'm still tweaking it here and there, but feel free to take whatever you like from it. I'm all about sharing and remixing, yo.
