---
layout: post
title: All in Good Company
---

*In today's episode of the required blog posts for the <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu/people/91/blog/">NCSU STARS Student Leadership Corps</a>, I go over my advice for success in Computer Science and beyond.*

Inside Higher Ed posted a <a href="http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2012/09/27/new-analysis-factors-associated-academics-publishing-more-others">great article</a> today on the qualities associated with successful and productive researchers. Aside from individual motivation, the strongest indicators of success were associated with networking skills. For anyone who knows me, they should know I've been convinced of the importance of networking since I started Graduate school, but it's always nice to see my thoughts echoed by someone else.

The key to success, in my obviously qualified opinion, is rooted in the professional relationships that you build throughout your life. Whether you're an academic like me or a professional out in the industry, a <em>diverse</em> network of people who are <em>devoted to personal development</em> is one of the most important resources built during the formative years of your career. As it turns out, there's actually a name for this important group of people: it's called a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_learning_network">Personal Learning Network (PLN)</a>, a buzzword that I discovered thanks to a comment on my blog from <a href="https://theresearchwhisperer.wordpress.com/">the Research Whisperer</a> about a year ago. Now that I know the term, I <a href="https://chatwithrellypops.wordpress.com/2012/01/09/a-pln-friends-with-benefits/">see</a> <a href="http://thesiswhisperer.com/2012/07/06/personal-learning-networks/">it</a> <a href="http://pleconf.org/">everywhere</a>!

Note that my two qualities of the people that make up a PLN didn't include anything about intelligence, notoriety, or quantity. The two traits that I think are key are diversity and devotion. When fully fleshed out, the people that you consider colleagues should consist of people who are passionate about the same things you are, but looking at them from a different perspective. As someone who is interested in technology education, my network contains both career academics and industry professionals... computer scientists and humanities scholars... people local to me and people located all over the world!

The most beautiful part about a personal learning network is that it is a <em>symbiotic</em> relationship. Having a PLN enriches you because it exposes you to different viewpoints and broadens your view of the world, getting out of sheltered disciplinary silos and building global thinking skills. But while it may not look like it at first, the people with whom you collaborate are getting the same value, but in a different package... they are getting the technical experience and expertise that comes with the training we receive in <em>our</em> discipline. This informal give-and-take of knowledge is learning in its purest form, and nothing is more reassuring than facing a problem with the support of a diverse network of colleagues behind you.

The best ideas I've come across didn't manifest themselves in a classroom or a lab, but instead over a beer among good company. Some of my most inspirational colleagues don't even have a bachelor's degree, but have more passion about education and technology than some of my peers in the Ph.D. program here at State. It's not about credentials or institutional affiliations, but about people with a positive attitude that brings out the best in <em>you</em>. It takes some effort to build these networks, as it requires keeping an eye out for opportunities that fall outside of the comfort zone of our discipline. It isn't easy, but it's well worth it.
