---
layout: post
title: Taking Part in a Virtual Discussion
tags: blog
---

Today I was the virtual guest at a workshop held at Duke on the subject of <a href="https://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/digital-pedagogy-play-and-mass-collaboration-an-online-event-this-afternoon/44174">Digital Pedagogy, Play, and Mass Collaboration</a>. The event was streamed via Youtube with no technical hiccups (<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaXB2AnSMRU">and recorded here</a>) with the bulk of the interaction taking place on Twitter with the hashtag <a href="https://twitter.com/search/%23dukehp">#dukehp</a>. I really wish I could have attended in person, but I had a copyright committee meeting today as well, but the online interaction was about as interactive as I figure being there in person would have been since I had to duck out early anyway.

Because the video is online and you can see it for yourself, I'm going to spend most of this entry recounting what it was like to be participating in a Twitter-powered discussion. The primary point of discussion was on the game of <a href="http://twittervszombies.com/">Twitter vs Zombies</a> that was played this past weekend, a silly game on Twitter where zombified Twittizens could #bite humans and turning them into zombies if they didn't #dodge the bite or have a friend #swipe the zombie away. It was rampant nonsense with absolutely no pedagogical value. After all, it was Zombies... on Twitter! Two mainstream pop icons about as far removed from the stuffy, snooty world of proper academia as can be.

However, as <a href="http://twitter.com/jessifer">@jessifer</a> and <a href="http://twitter.com/allistelling">@allistelling</a> would lead us to believe, all of this Walking Dead role-play actually ended up <em>teaching</em> the players something. Given that you can only bite a human five minutes after a tweet, you had to keep an eye out on who was playing - maybe outside of the corner of your eye while writing for <a href="http://www.phd2published.com/2012/10/15/announcing-acwrimo/">#AcWriMo</a>, or maybe on your mobile device. If you want to keep in touch with people, using Twitter itself was dangerous - you might need to learn how to use a new channel to coordinate with colleagues and fellow survivors. The Zombies in this game were far from the mindless ghouls from the TV shows, acting more like intelligent revenants - scheming together, sharing intel, and respecting peace treaties!

Part of what made the exercise so interesting was that everything was "open" in the truest sense of the word. Anyone could play, anyone could provide feedback to help change the rules of the game. While the premise was to teach people Twitter literacy, the only outcome that was measured by the facilitators was: <em>Did they participate? Was it fun?</em> "Play" was not used as a method to achieve any particular objective - "play" was the objective itself, since with "play" comes "learning". I didn't expect to cite an old blog entry here, but the outcomes weren't directly measurable - they just wanted to see <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/11/02/what-would-happen">what would happen</a>. When people talk about gamifying education, this is what they should be thinking about.

Broke my promise. I spent more time talking about the talk than I planned to. Already at 400 words.

Since my Twitter awakening at PyCarolinas, I've played the role of a parrot at each event that I've participated in. The bulk of the Tweets were mine, so I was the center of attention. Not so much in this case, and to be honest, that was quite refreshing. I haven't counted, but I'm pretty sure I wasn't in the top-five Twitterers today (I had 24, not including RTs), meaning that I didn't have to play the role of scribe - I got to actually provide commentary and <em>interact</em> with the other participants! The content didn't have to be repeated for the feed - you can grasp what was important from the conversations were were having!

The advantage to being on the Twitter stream when participating in a workshop is that you never have to worry about not having a chance to speak. If you have a comment you want to make, you make it. Maybe someone else will find it, maybe not. Maybe when the workshop is Storified, someone will find it and follow up with you - that's what I do. Given that in large groups, many people feel as though they never get a chance to speak - while you won't get the entire room to be silent for you to say what you want to say, you still get a chance to put what you have to say out in the open.

Of course, if what you want is a chance to be on a podium with all eyes and ears on you, Twitter doesn't provide that, as it's the exact opposite of a captive audience. On the other hand, if what you want to do is genuinely add something of value to the conversation, then that's exactly what you're able to do. In the same way that one person asking all of the questions at a seminar monopolizes the dialogue, Twitter democratizes it by making everyone equal in the eyes of the stream. Only the best information will be caught the first time, and when it is, it will be retweeted, improving the chance that someone else will find it! If anything, this is why I love the Twitter backchannel - it makes everyone a participant.

Which, coming full circle, is exactly what this talk was about. Yes, I wish I could have been there in person swap business cards, do some networking, and engage in some off-topic chatter. I got a few folks to follow me after my interactions, so I suppose that's the Twitter equivalent of giving out a business card. For me, when I try to evaluate whether a workshop was "worth it", I just ask myself if I felt as though I was an active participant. The only outcomes for me are having a good time and making an impression. By that metric, I'd say this was a success - even from my cheap apartment in Raleigh.
