---
layout: post
title: Everything old is new again
tags: blog
---

As I said before, it's an interesting experience attending the <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/08/17/teaching-after-all">Fundamentals in Teaching</a> workshops again now that I can put them in the context of a class that I'm actually teaching rather than trying to imagine what it would be like without having that experience behind me. It opens a brand new lense, and while I got off to a rocky start, I can see that being through the workshops made me more prepared for this challenge than many others would be. While I've been wanting to teach simply for its own sake for a while, one of the best things about me teaching now is that I finally get a chance to participate in the <a href="http://www.ncsu.edu/grad/preparing-future-leaders/teaching-programs/coat/">Certificate of Accomplishment in Teaching Program</a>.

I'm not going to go in depth about the CoAT program, because this is about my experience, not the requirements. While I've been to dozens of workshops through the first year of my Graduate studies, I've never had an opportunity to take from them and apply them directly to a teaching experience. Even though I've taken the Introduction to Teaching workshop three times, it managed to stick <em>this time</em> because I could make it relevant by connecting it to something real. In the Intro workshop, the motivating exercise is putting together a lesson plan - or in my case, a lab plan - based on the principles of student-centered learning and careful selection of learning objectives. While the lab I teach is more about "how do I deliver what the professor tells me to" rather than "what do I deliver to match the learning outcomes", I saw this as more of a challenge to make it so that whenever I lead a lab, I try to talk to them in terms of the learning objectives that are covered in class and how they connect to the lab materials they work during each week. By matching up the learning objectives with the lab activities in a lesson plan, I'm able to make sure that even when I can't do everything, I hit the high notes correctly and effectively.

The role of the lab in this class is twofold. The obvious role is that the lab exercises are about building mastery while having an expert in the room to help guide learning novices through the material. However, the lab is also about assessment - namely formative assessment. By watching how students attempt the group exercises, I have an opportunity to steer them in the right direction so that when it comes time for the final examination, what they did in lab will be internalized, resulting in their success on their final, summative assessment. The <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2011/11/08/how-to-grade-writing-and-other-neat-things">FIT workshops on assessment</a>, and even the <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/09/12/visiting-the-phd-lab">workshop this Wednesday at the Ph.D. lab</a> encourage me to keep the method and intention of the assessment in mind when I lead each lab, and I incorporate how I intend to assess each learning objective in each of the lesson plans I compose. I even attended a pair of workshops offered through the College of Engineering that focused on the same topics as the FIT workshops, except with the unique needs of Engineering students in mind. Pulling all of that together, I compose a unique lesson plan for each lab, even when the entire lab is entirely delivered as a "work on your homework" day.

<a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/07/30/how-do-you-assess-your-professors">Assessment isn't a one-way street</a>. As a final part of my lesson plans, and following each lab I lead, I append a postmortem report to help me assess <em>myself</em>, in order to be a better teacher. In this case, I review what parts of my lesson plan seemed to work well, what didn't, and what I should do more. Teaching is about finding a rhythm that you're comfortable with - otherwise, your delivery seems stilted and you risk students not taking it seriously. Teaching once a week is often enough to find that rhythm, but not so often that it's overwhelming. I use the downtime between each class to reflect on the last class and then build the lesson plan for the next, meaning that by the end of the semester, all of the lesson plans should fit together nicely in a chronicle of the search for <em>my</em> rhythm. 

As part of the CoAT requirements, one of my tasks is to put together a tool using information from the workshops I attend and then write about it. For the purposes of this entry, the tool I have in mind is the collection of lesson plans and reflections that I put together for each lab I led. Right now, it's not available, but when the semester is finished, they will be one of the most comprehensive artifacts in my <a href="http://isharacomix.org/teaching/">Teaching Portfolio</a> for this class.
