---
layout: post
title: Education at LISA '12
tags: blog
---

So I just came back from a boat. The nice thing about being at conferences is that while you often pay an arm and a leg for your meals, there's often a reception where everything is paid for by the conference. Including the alcohol.

Oh, the alcohol.

Since my last blog entry, everything in between then and now was focused on education. And it was amazing. Last night was the Birds-of-a-Feather session dedicated to beginning the conversation about educating system administrators. We got together in a group and started talking about System Administration Education. Some engineers at Etsy are even in the process of spearheading a MOOC-like project with O'Reilly called <a href="http://opsschool.org">OpsSchool</a> (an online curriculum with videos available for a fee). We talked about the fact that projects given to students who are interested in system administration must be as authentic as possible. One of our members advocated making sure that students knew that administration was just as much about writing a script as it was about drilling a hole to put wires through in the warehouse. Another advocated getting rid of the "closed world" model that has lots of assumptions that make life easier, to working in the "open world" model where nothing can be assumed and anything can go wrong (and there might not even be a right answer). While I'm not a System Admin, I got a lot of great ideas about focusing on how to test students' thought-processes rather than their results, as results don't indicate that they are learning the skills that really count when they get out of school. I'm sure I was not alone in wanting to make sure I caught bad habits before they stuck with them.

The problem with this group is that it was way too large. We had from 14 to 18 people in the group (the magic number is 7), which ended up with lots of people waiting to talk and very little progress being done. One problem with talking about education at a technical conference is that while many folks think they know about teaching and learning, very few people have even the most basic introduction to educational psychology - which frustrates someone like me to no end. As anyone who has followed this blog knows, education is something I cared about even before it became a research focus of mine, and it was an unparalleled pleasure to hear <a href="http://twitter.com/selenamarie">Selena Deckelmann</a> present her talk on <a href="https://www.usenix.org/conference/lisa12/education-vs-training">Education vs Training</a> this morning. Selena had the charisma to lead the discussion on education and the theory to back it up, and I should expect no less from a mentor in #PyLadies. She brought up everything from Bloom's Taxonomy to the core mentality of student-centered learning ("if my students didn't learn it, then I failed to teach it"). As great as Vint Cerf's keynote was, <em>this</em> is what made LISA worth the trip. Heck, I even got to participate on Twitter during this talk (<a href="http://storify.com/selenamarie/tweets-from-education-vs-training-talk">Storified here</a>)!

Selena actually had an interesting perspective that I personally disagree with. She argued that Education (the domain of Academics people like me) is the field that teaches students habits that they will adopt in practice, while Training (the domain of practicing mentors in the field) teaches students competence and mastery. This is a view of Education and Training that I have heard before and have <em>never</em> agreed with. I have always believed that the role of Training is to develop intuition and habits when approacing problems in a specific field with specific tools. The role of the University, instead, should be to take that intuition and polish it by generalizing it beyond a specific language or toolset. One major problem that was brought up in many of the previous talks was that many schools will teach a specific language or vendor toolchain such as Java and Cisco. The reason for this isn't that a specific language is better or worse than another, but that the course needs a language to serve as the notation for the course - a <em>lingua franca</em> for delivering technical understanding that keeps everyone on the same page. The role of the University is to teach students to think beyond the tool and look at the higher level forces at play. Teaching them to generalize and think of problems as a series of abstractions. In spite of my disagreements, that absolutely does not diminish the value of her talk - it's definitely something that the LISA community needed to hear, and I'm glad that someone within their community, rather than an outsider like me, was able to say it.

After that talk, I attended the technical sessions on Community and Teaching, a series of three papers presented by LISA members on the non-technical aspects of System Administration (my favorite aspects!). The speakers talked about topics like going to developing countries and participating in developing sustainable system administration for Universities in those regions - a sort of System Administration for the Public Good which is very much related to what I do with STARS. We got to hear about the first class taught by a System Administrator - the lessons learned with teaching at the University Level and how interested SysAdmins can get involved in teaching at their own institutions if they happen to work at colleges or Universities. Finally, and most interestingly, I got to hear about the role the professional development plays in improving and <em>retaining</em> talent in companies. One thing I find to be immenseley rewarding about being a Grad Student at NC State University is having access to the Preparing Future Leaders Program. While we make an effort to market that to our own students, it's important to market professional development opportunities like these to prospective students as well. While many employers are worried that training their employees may encourage them to leave, the paper brought up evidence that such initiatives actually create more <em>loyalty</em> to a company than not. When an employee can have regular opportunities to improve their skills on their working time, it creates a sense of added value to sticking with their employer rather than splitting off and going into business for themselves. This is something I had never considered before, and I hope that they collect more data to support these claims.

In addition to attending these talks, I got to lend a hand in writing the summaries for these three papers in the USENIX magazine <em>;login:</em> as part of my student grant. I'm really glad I was able to serve the USENIX community in return for the gracious free attendance to the conference I was given by doing what I love to do - writing. I suppose I can't put these summaries under the "Refereed Papers" portion of my CV, but I could certainly list them under "Public Scholarship".

I love how the LISA community has such a strong educational focus, and it's making me regret not attending the Educational Summit at <a href="http://pycon.org">PyCon</a> more with each passing day. Despite the fact that I am not a System Administrator, this passion for teaching in a field that doesn't really fit in with the academic silos is something that I relate to. In a similar manner to Digital Humanists, System Administrators are academic misfits in a sort of academic limbo. There is no "Scholarship of System Administration", and many folks in this conference could have really benefitted from it. The passion and the <em>need</em> for scholarship in this area makes me feel really guilty. LISA '13 will be in Washington, D.C. in November next year. Maybe I'll attend. I can drive up there.

This has been a wonderful day. My presentation was the lowest point of the day, since the talks I went to had more to do with my research than my research had to do with my research. It's always an interesting turn of events, isn't it? Today made LISA worth attending.

AND THEN I GOT ON A BOAT AND DRANK ALL THE BEER.
