---
layout: post
title: Ciao, 2012!
tags: blog
---

It's been a big year. I found a research direction. MOOCs took the world by storm. The world didn't end. I write a lot of my blog in a very reflective tone, looking backwards at things that were and could've been. Wordpress took care of that for me this year, so as we say good-bye to 2012 and welcome 2013 with open arms, I figure that this blog entry should be a forwards-looking entry. This isn't really about silly resolutions so much as it is about goals I've decided to set for myself. 365 days is a long time to get a lot of work done. I'm going to make this a big year - the biggest year ever.

First things first. By this time next year, I intend to complete my preliminary examination. Even if I don't actually <em>do</em> the formal stand-up prelim, the goal is to finish the research and the paper that will serve as the basis for the prelim so that all that is left is the presentation. I've spent the last semester coming up with ideas and catching up on educational research, and I even managed to knock out two publications this year. This isn't a bad start by any counts, but scholars don't get recognized for their ideas - they get recognized for acting on them. I've spent enough time pacing and thinking. I've spent enough time networking. It's time for some results... otherwise my research career isn't going to last very long.

Nextly, I'm going to participate in my first real MOOCs this year. While I did take part in Coursera over the summer, I admit that it was a half-hearted attempt from the get-go. It's hard to enjoy a class when it's on a subject that you already have a degree in, so these new MOOCs will all be in new, research-relevant content building my knowledge and connecting me to people who are passionate about the future of education. I've even been setting up Tumblelogs to serve as single-topic blogs and portfolios for the classes I'll be taking. I've already got two, #oldsmooc and #ds106, with more undoubtedly on the way. The best part about the physical classes and MOOCs that I'll be taking is that they all connect with one another so well. The abstact, high-level nature of graduate courses makes it much easier to turn courses around so that they can be applied to whatever research you happen to be doing, which is why I love them so much.

Last, but not least, I'm going to make an effort to be more communicative with the people in my network. As the semester has continued, I've been spending more time by myself not really doing anything worthwhile. It might just be the end of the year and holidays springing up, but I've noticed that I've been building a lot of connections without actually interacting with them. I had a great conversation in ##isharacomix on IRC the other day, and that made me feel awful about how I have chat rooms and IM accounts that I've been ignoring, despite them being the absolute greatest source of information and inspiration I have. I've made no secret of the fact that it's <em>people</em> that keep me going, and it's the thought of how much good I can do with my research in education that makes me think that this whole Ph.D. thing is worthwhile. I'm hoping that because the MOOCs I'll be taking are <a href="http://www.connectivistmoocs.org/">connectivist</a> in nature, that will give me some momentum that will keep me going.

Bring it on, 2013. I'm as ready as I'll ever be.
