---
layout: post
title: Networking Overload (Part 1 of 3)
---

*On Thursday, October 4, 2012, I went to three spectacular events held across Duke University and UNC Chapel Hill. I couldn't bring myself to try to fit them all into a single blog post. Therefore, I'll be spreading them across the weekend so that they each get the attention they deserve.*

While there is a lot of energy being directed to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOOC">MOOCs</a>, not so much attention is being directed towards <em><strong>m</strong></em>OOCs (that's a little "m"). <a href="https://www.stanford.edu/dept/DLCL/cgi-bin/web/people/petra-dierkes-thrun">Dr. Petra Dierkes-Thrun</a> led a workshop with the <a href="http://sites.fhi.duke.edu/phdlab/">Duke Ph.D. Lab in Digital Learning</a> on what she called "minuscule" Open Online Courses, which are a manageable way for one to experiment with the social benefits of their massive cousins, but without the pressure that comes with them. Leading her own <a href="https://wildedecadents.wordpress.com/">comparative literature course</a> on Oscar Wilde and the French Decadents. As a dirty Computer Scientist, I don't know what that means, but I'm following the blog so I'm bound to find out!

Her talk/workshop/seminar was basically a discussion around how she set up her course and fit it into her workflow to avoid alienating her resident students. As a self-described non-techie (a dubious claim, as evidenced from the Semaphore talk I'll discuss in Part 3 on Sunday), she successfully built a Wordpress site both as an exercise in teaching herself a new technology as well as making just a little bit more culture available to the layperson who may be so lucky as to find her blog.

The course is structured as a "traditional" course with a "side of Wordpress". She intentionally states that students are not required, but invited to share their thoughts via comments and blog posts. The students have access to edit blog posts, while the public can leave comments and interact in a more moderated fashion. The course has only been going for two weeks, but the potential for the future is already apparent: future classes can build on the discourse of the previous offerings. In addition to critiquing the literature itself, they can critique the commentary of previous classes. On the flip side, previous classes never have to truly "leave" the course, able to join in the discussion for as long as the website exists.

The Humanities benefit from a core element of their discipline where there is seldom a definitive end to the discussion of a subject. Current events make it possible to tie together the past with the present in unique ways from semester to semester, and there is always a unique viewpoint to be expressed. This means that unlike traditional math courses, there is no penalty in making all of the writing from the past course offerings available to future classes. The openness of the class isn't just in inviting the public to take part, but also encouraging students to stop looking at the class as something that has to end when the term comes to a close. This mindset is a perfect way to foster a passion for lifelong learning.

However, the public nature of these open courses also bring a very interesting issue to the table. Part of the point of the college classroom - more present in the Humanities than is obvious in Engineering - is the opportunity to discuss controversial topics without fear of judgment or backlash. Because MOOCs (and even mOOCs) are available outside of the walls of the University, certain fields require "being controversial in public", something that students may not be comfortable with. However, Engineering and Computer Science are no strangers to controversial subjects. Copyright, surveillance, cryptography... even calling "Computer Science" an "Engineering" discipline. All of these are can be rather heated topics, especially when exposed to the public who always has something to say whether or not they are qualified to say it.

There has to be a careful balance between openness and privacy. On one hand, the safe walls of the academy cultivate learning by preventing outside influences from inhibiting the free discussion of the material. However, when students (and faculty!) are sheltered from the world, they lose the opportunity to public at large and (to put it quite bluntly) to build thicker skin from unwarranted and unfair criticism of their subject matter. Unlike Computer Science, the value of the Humanities is less immediately obvious to the public, and as such, the public sees it as little more than navel-gazing. Public scholarship is the first step in building ties between town and gown, and these open courses offer insight that people outside the discipline don't usually have.

That's enough of my rambling. For some additional reading, the livetweet of the workshop was <a href="http://storify.com/stargould/how-to-create-a-humanities-mooc-massive-online-ope">storified here</a>. The workshop was also recorded and <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUPZQOxPXn8">uploaded to Youtube</a>.
