---
layout: post
title: I Hate Computers
---

I'm not kidding. Sometimes, I really hate computers. They are frustrating and childish devices, and they drive me absolutely mad sometimes. Just the other day, two of my three machines decided to fail on the same evening, and thanks to the thunderstorm we had, I ended up losing Internet access for the night. So being without Internet, I poured myself a glass of burgundy and starting to install <a href="http://xubuntu.org">Xubuntu</a> on both of them.

I'm starting to see why there's a <a href="http://boingboing.net/2012/01/10/lockdown.html">war on general-purpose computing</a> and even more, I'm starting to see why the folks leading that war are making progress. Computers are wholly unreliable beasts. Thanks to miniaturization, parts are too small to replace or modify without specialized equipment, meaning that all too often it's easier to toss a device rather than get it back up to speed. Years ago, swapping hard drives between boxes was a sensible way to get the most out of your equipment, but nowadays, it's pretty hard to get anything out of one laptop and into another.

Everything breaks down one day or another. Maybe I'm a little unreasonable trying to get another year or two out of the seven-year-old laptop I got back in high school, I still think that I  take well-enough care of my machinery to go for at least a year between computer failures. Having two failures in one night was maddening. What's even more baffling is despite going through two computer failures, I am now back to full speed less than a day later. <em>I have become so accustomed to computer failures that I am able to survive them without so much as a hiccup in my routine</em>. After almost 15 (20?) years since the personal computer became a "thing", why isn't more energy spent on making them <em>reliable</em>?

Long ago, it used to be that I would get very attached to my machines. I would play games, listen to music, watch movies, write programs, and have all sorts of fun on my computers. When they would fail, I would go to the ends of the earth to save the machine because it wasn't just about keeping the data... it was about keeping the personalized environment that I made for myself over years of use intact. However, since I've gotten older, I have work to do and don't have time to deal with that anymore. I have developed a much colder relationship with my machines. My personalization of them goes about as far as the hostname and the desktop wallpaper. From there, they're pretty vanilla installations. I can go from nothing to a usable system in about three hours.

I still haven't gone "to the cloud", but I have made sure that I never keep all of my eggs in one basket. I keep subversion repositories containing all of my data (about 600MB worth) on several computers, including servers I have accounts on as well as all three of my personal machines (I could probably even keep a backup of everything on my Nexus - just in case). The package manager on Linux makes it trivial to get my toolset installed ($$\LateX$$ and gcc, mostly), and most of the personalization I do is setting up all of my e-mail and IM accounts. I may start putting backups on Ubuntu One, but I'm a little wary of putting my research data on machines that I don't have some degree of control over.

In my case, it turns out that I really don't need a general-purpose computer anymore. I want a thin layer that connects me to the tools I need. That's not to say I want to do everything in the browser... working with Google Docs is a nightmare... but I want something that falls between a tablet and a laptop. Something where I can get all of the applications I need with minimal setup, and store my configurations on a flash drive and carry them from device to device. This is part of why I've actually starting liking this tablet. It's not about always being connected (since it is limited to WiFi), but it's about the lightweight interface to the networked world through small, single-purpose apps that don't try to do and be everything.

Computers are wonderful devices, since every failure is a learning experience, and that's what keeps us young. But there's a time and a place for that, and 24 hours before the conference deadline is not the time or place.
