---
layout: post
title: Apparently I'm Pretty OK at Teaching
tags: blog
---

We're in the last stretch of the semester - November is the last month of the term with exams taking place in the first two weeks of December. This means I've officially been teaching for almost a semester, and if my evaluation means anything, apparently I've been doing a decent job and haven't outrageously embarrassed any of the people who have high expectations for me.

As part of the Certificate of Accomplishment in Teaching program, I'm required to undergo a teaching evaluation for each of the two semesters I teach, and I wouldn't have it any other way. I was happy to be observed by <a href="http://people.engr.ncsu.edu/sesmith5/">Dr. Sarah Heckman</a>, the first of our Department's Teaching Assistant Professors. One of the reasons I see Dr. Heckman as a mentor isn't just because she's an inspiring lecturer, but because she also been playing a leading role in making the curriculum for our Undergraduates more cohesive when it comes to the material they learn in their first few years in the program. This is a skill that I would imagine many Graduate Students don't pick up from their mentors, so I count myself lucky to have this opportunity.

Most of her suggested points of improvement came at no great surprise, which is a good thing since it shows that I'm aware of my weaknesses. She didn't really pick on the fact that I experienced a technical glitch when trying to demonstrate the lab activity, but she did suggest that rather than going offline to fix bugs, I should invite the class to provide suggestions or allow them to see how I try to fix the error as a learning opportunity (this trick works quite well in Computer Science as opposed to other disciplines). It was great that the subtle, intentional things I do in class shined through, such as my creation of impromptu learning exercises based on how students are approaching the problem at hand. While I was more conscious of the observation at the beginning of the lab while giving the demo, the pressure melted away when I got back into the flow.

A lab is a unique environment because it is much more informal than a classroom - especially at this point in the year when students are trying to make the most of the lab time to get their final projects done. At first I was worried that it would be hard to give me a fair assessment because the lab is so unstructured and dynamic, but then I realized that if anything, the lab would be a great environment to see how I work under the pressure of failing demos and bringing students engrossed in their work to attention. A classroom feels more comfortable to some because the environment artificially boosts the presence and importance of the lecturer. While this evaluation doesn't necessarily map to how well I would do in the lecturing environment, it offers an educated guess.

Being observed inspires a certain degree of self-consciousness about one's actions, and I questioned a lot of my decisions when I was under the microscope. Part of me regrets trying to spend the beginning of the lab showing students how to set up the testing environment. My intention was to ensure that everyone started on the same page, but when I justify it to myself, it was because I was afraid students would do the exercise at home and then miss out on doing it in lab... after all of the talks I've been to on flipped classrooms, isn't it that a funny way of thinking?

It was great getting feedback from a mentor for a change. While my students are always very supportive of my teaching style since I'm definitely among the more visible and accessible TAs, there are certain aspects of my teaching that they aren't prepared to recognize. Since I'm a Computer Scientist with a teaching spin, I do often take time in between labs to give students a behind-the-scenes look at the theory behind how my lab and the lecture for the course is planned, showing them my lesson plans the questions I ask myself after each lab session to encourage reflection and self-improvement. But even with all of that, it takes the guidance of an experienced instructor to firmly point me in the right direction so that I don't lose sight of developing stronger presentation, planning, and evaluation skills. Discussing my evaluation today got me excited and motivated about what I could be doing next semester!

Now if I could just work up the motivation to finish this grading. *groan*
