---
layout: post
title: Blogging Pitfalls
tags: blog
---

When I started this blog, I made a conscious decision to stick my real name all over it. Over the past year, I've been working on consolidating my online identity so that when people see my name in conference proceedings, there is no mistaking the fact that when they search for me, they find <em>me</em>. And this blog is really a fundamental part of who I am, which is why I make such an effort to ensure that it is visible to people who are trying to find out more about me. While this is all part of building a healthy brand, there are a number of pitfalls that I've considered, yet decided that the benefits outweighed the potential issues.

When I sign my name on this blog, there are a lot of people that I represent with each entry. My instutition, my teachers, my advisor, and in the event that I teach, even my students. None of them have really consented to being a part of this blog, but these people are connected to me and (as anyone who's been involved in double-blind reviews knows) it's quite easy to figure them out through the publicly available information published by the University and my Department. I'm not going out of my way to make their lives difficult, but we live in a connected era that makes it very hard to speak about our own lives in a vacuum. Whatever we say, we make references to the people who inspire us, and that's the way it should be.

But it introduces an awful lot of liability into something innocent like a blog. A slip of the tongue can land you in a libel suit, or if you mention something about a student's performance in class, you could get knocked upside the head by the feds for violating FERPA. When this happens, the consequences ripple outward. It embarasses your institution. It embarasses your advisors. It makes things very uncomfortable, so most people choose the road of anonymity. An anonymous blogger griping about his advisor doesn't raise a concern since nobody knows the blogger, and hence, nobody knows the advisor. However, since most students only have one advisor, once the student is known, you can't really hide the identity of the advisor anymore.

So why do I do things this way? Because I'm proud of what I'm doing. I'm proud of being a student at NC State, and I'm immeasurably happy that I get to collaborate with the brilliant and passionate people that I call my advisors, colleagues and peers. I'm not on this blog to gossip, complain, or gripe about the things and people that I don't like about my University. I will, if I can make a thoughtful post about it, but that's not what I'm here for. I'm here to share the adventures of my life in Academia, and because my life involves other people, I'm not going to throw away a perfectly good blog entry because I'm afraid that someone else is going to take offense at me mentioning them in an off-hand way that is respectable, sensible, and in perfectly good faith.

This is one reason why there are so few pictures on this blog. I don't feel like getting clearance from other people to have their pictures appear here, so I just don't worry about it and post pictures of buildings, nature, and my ugly self. I can't imagine a more awkward question to ask someone than "can I blog about you?" Maybe American legal culture has just got me paranoid about liability. I dunno.

On a completely unrelated note, I saw <a href="http://www.gradhacker.org/2012/05/16/candor-and-candidacy-in-social-media/">a very similar articles on GradHacker</a> today. Sounds like people have got image on the brain this month.
