---
layout: post
title: Making a teaching portfolio
tags: blog
---

The Professor's responsibilities are threefold - research, service, and teaching. While the Curriculum Vitae covers the full breadth of events in the Professor's professional life, it does not give much insight into the depth of their work, which can make it hard to evaluate them as academic professionals. The teaching portfolio is a carefully-built personal statement of the <em>depth</em> of a Professor's teaching career, allowing an opportunity for the individual to reflect on their teaching history, incorporating their observations along with supporting evidence into a single work that speaks for their excellence in the classroom. I just finished taking Dr. Barbi Honeycutt's <a href="http://www.ncsu.edu/grad/preparing-future-leaders/teaching-programs/index.php">workshop on building a teaching portfolio</a>, and there were a few things that I wanted to reflect on myself.

The teaching portfolio contains three main ingredients - personal reflections about one's teachings philosophy and approaches, feedback from peers and mentors regarding one's teaching, and hard evidence from the classroom that reinforces one's skills and abilities. It's not an exhaustive listing of every class that has ever been taught since the educator started Grad School, but rather a selective collection of examples that clearly show his or her growth through empirical evidence and self-reflection. Just like a thesis, a teaching portfolio is a labor of love, but it isn't a fire-and-forget publication! It's a living document that needs to be constantly reworked and reexamined so that it kept up-to-date for whatever teaching awards or tenure decisions are waiting around the corner.

In order to maintain a good portfolio, it's important to develop a system for keeping track of materials that can be used in future revisions of the document. This can include graded papers, course evaluations, or even personal reflections from going to professional development workshops. Not everything belongs in the portfolio proper, but by keeping a stockpile of resources in a neat and organized spot, finding a shining example from a previous class that really drives home a certain idea in the portfolio becomes a much more manageable task.

So while watching the workshop, I had a pretty good idea - why not interlink my own teaching portfolio (and my CV) with my blog? Every blog entry I write is a reflection of something that I've seen, heard, or accomplished. I've even started taking the time to reflect more seriously on the <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/04/26/teaching-philosophies-for-computer-science">events that I go to</a>. Dr. Honeycutt said herself, it's not enough just to say that you went to a conference or workshop. You need to take what you learn there and <em>connect it back with how it affects you as a scholar, educator, and professional</em>. And since every blog entry I write stands on its own as a reflection, I can cite my own entries in my portfolio to add a bit of flair and perspective to the ever-growing list of cool things that I've done as a student.

Though at times my blog can be informal, silly, mundane, or much too focused on my self-destructive cooking habits, it's is also a record of my progress as a Graduate Student, and speaks volumes about the decision I made to pursue a career in academia. Over the past year, I've slowly been getting settled into the blogging routine, and while I feel bad that I haven't been nearly as diligent about reflecting on the important things that I've done while in school, I console myself with the thought that I've only been at this for one year, and I've got a whole lifetime to grow and figure out the direction I want to take my blog, my degree, and my career in the future.
