---
layout: post
title: Us vs Them
---

In a perfect world, the classroom is a forum of knowledge and discovery. The teacher is enthusiastic to teach and learn from his or her students, and the students are enthusiastic to learn from their teacher and one another. In such a world, the classroom exists on a plane completely disjoint from the rules and requirements of the physical world in order to promote this sharing of knowledge.

Of course, we don't live in a perfect world. There are a number of real problems that crop up in a classroom environment, and it makes us very uncomfortable to talk about them because it breaks the suspension of disbelief that the classroom is an isolated center of learning. Academic integrity is one such case that nobody likes to discuss (yet everyone needs to hear), but saying it isn't a problem is akin to burying one's head in the sand.

I'm in a bit of a weird spot - as a researcher and future teacher, I know all about the problems of cheating and why institutions have a zero-tolerance stance towards it. It robs students of the opportunity to learn, brings research accomplishments into question, and ultimately devalues our institutions. Nobody wants to attend a University with a reputation for graduating dishonest students just as nobody wants to submit to a journal that accepts fabricated papers. It's for this reason that a plagiarism violation serves as a Scarlet Letter in the academic world.

But as a student, nothing ruffles my feathers nearly as much as hearing about the latest and greatest "solutions" to the cheating problem. I get rather indignant when I hear about ridiculous technical measures to prevent cheating, basically treating students as adversaries that need to be defeated. Even though I shouldn't, I take it personally - at the risk of bringing my objectivity into questions - because I don't like being referred to or be treated as "the enemy".

Finding academic integrity violations is a "needle in a haystack" problem, meaning that the majority of students will not go out of their way to cheat on their work. Furthermore, you don't know a cheater until you catch them in the act. The three ways of catching them are through preventive education, authentic assessment, and technical policing. Whatever approach is used must be applied to all students (meaning the "law-abiding" students), because, once again, you can't tell the needles from the straw until after the fact. What is a false positive in this case? Requiring a honest student to submit their paper to TurnItIn, perhaps? Some would argue that that's it's an acceptable compromise, since submitting to the plagiarism detection and getting that low number back puts them firmly in the clear.

My problem with this is that they wouldn't need to clear themselves <em>if they weren't under suspicion in the first place</em>.

"Innocent until proven guilty" is a soundbyte of the American justice system that we teach our students in their first social studies classes. Yet at those same schools, the converse is always implied, as they are viewed under the suspicion that they are all cheaters that haven't been caught yet. People don't like be be treated with suspicion, because it breeds resentment and distrust against a system that's supposed to be on their side.

I like draw a parallel with the Anti-Piracy Warnings that appear at the begining of DVDs. Many opponents of the practice make the claim that it doesn't do any good since only <em>legal</em> DVD owners ever see the warning since pirates would be able to skip them or edit them out. In other words, when law-abiding citizens are lectured to and having their sense of integrity questioned, it desensetizes them to the cause <em>without deterring piracy in the first place</em>, resulting in a net loss. Telling legal buyers of music what horrible people they are for wanting to copy their CDs to their MP3 players simply breeds resentment, and while it probably won't inspire them to begin torrenting movies out of spite, it won't make them strongly disapprove of their friends when they do it, and social pressure is the best enforcement there is.

Not all "cheating" is intentionally dishonest. Sometimes there are cultural differences that cause a disconnection between what we believe is unethical and what the student believes is unethical. Then there are generational issues - regardless of your stance on the piracy debate, the fact that a generational and technology gap has emerged regarding what is and isn't ethical. A great paper on the topic is from the ASEE Annual Conference titled <em><a href="www.asee.org/file_server/papers/attachment/file/0002/2720/ASEE_2012_March_9.pdf">Comparing Engineering Student Use of Solution Manuals and Student/Faculty Perceptions of Academic Dishonesty</a><sup>1</sup></em>.

The issue here isn't about what's right and wrong - the issue is applying an intervention designed to prevent a negative behavior without thinking about the false-positives. Heavy-handed, draconian approaches to dealing with cheating may reduce the crime, but at the cost of the respect of the well-to-do students? The us-vs-them rhetoric I hear on both sides feels self-destructive, but maybe that's just because I happen to be a false positive.

<sub><strong>1</strong>: Minichiello, A., McNeill, L., &amp; Hailey, C. (2012). Comparing Engineering Student Use of Solution Manuals and Student/Faculty Perceptions of Academic Dishonesty. <em>2012 ASEE Annual Conference.</em></sub>
