---
layout: post
title: DEFCON 2012 - The Fun I Didn't Have
tags: blog
---

I've been in a bit of a slump this week, as evidenced by the lack of writing here on the blog. The new semester begins on August 16, and the last few weeks of summer are a bit frustrating since I'm spending time trying to make work for myself until that time comes. Granted, I'll be going to a conference this weekend and participating in a panel discussion at the new Graduate Student Orientation when I get back, so I'll be kept fairly busy leading up to my next year of classes. Right now, though, things are fairly uninteresting. 

This past weekend was the <a href="http://defcon.org">DEFCON</a> security <del>conference</del> <del>convention</del> rock concert. While I was more or less willing to pony up the cash to book a flight to Vegas and hang out with the dark underbelly of cyberspace, I decided that I should probably save my money so that I can actually eat something a cut above ramen during my second year of Grad School. For those of you who don't know, DEFCON is a party where hackers of all shapes and sizes take over a hotel and wreak havoc on the poor unsuspecting folks in Las Vegas giving talks, running demos, and playing hacking games (on the other participants, no less!).

Unlike most conferences, there is no registration, there are no proceedings, and there are very few rules. Access is granted with $200 cash at the door, and the talks are primarily demonstrations designed to shock and entertain. It's most certainly not an academic conference! While it attracts the obvious scruffy hackers and ne'er-do-wells, it also brings in legitimate security researchers and even folks from various three-letter agencies in the US.

DEFCON is about the human side of hacking. Social engineering is just as much a security issue as SQL injection and buffer overflows. There's also a physical security side. Lockpicking classes and competitions are always a crowd-pleaser. The year before last, there was a demonstration on spoofing a cell phone tower, and last year, someone set up a UAV as a cell phone access point spoofer. It's also about policy - which is why they have panel discussions with the Feds. What it's <strong>not</strong> just about is the technology - the technology angle doesn't exist by itself in a vacuum.

Security analysis is about finding holes in assumptions we make about systems that we use and rely on every day. Finding these holes requires us to think way outside the box. While there are a number of ethical dilemmas surrounding the hacking culture, at its core, hacking is practical curiosity at its finest. People don't break open their radios to see how they work anymore. Hardware is delicate and software is obfuscated. Hackers are the group of people who aren't discouraged by this sort of thing.

DEFCON's a party, but there's a very serious theme to the whole affair, and that's its emphasis on security <em>awareness</em> and <em>education</em>. Computer security is a lot like the Emperor's non-existant clothes, only instead of realizing the truth when the innocent youngster points it out, they arrest him, sue him, and brand him as a criminal for the rest of his life. People don't like to have their sense of security questioned, which is what makes security such an important issue. Security is a very compelling motivator for getting people to think about the "magic" that makes computers work. Learning how to hack is an empowering experience, and while it's more challenging than other motivators such as games or mobile applications, I think that such a motivating theme could breed better computers scientists overall.
