---
layout: post
title: Am I being too open?
---

I've recently been thinking about starting a GradWiki to go with my GradBlog. Basically, I thought it'd be cool to have a publicly available annotated bibliography that catalogues all of the articles that I've read (popular and scholarly), along with my comments and observations about them. By tagging articles and making them easily searchable, there's an immediate benefit to me, and there would probably be some benefit to others. Furthermore, it would be awesome to have a place where folks who are interested in the same subjects can weigh in with their opinions on the articles. However, while starting this little project up, I started having some second thoughts on the matter.

One of the major purposes of an annotated bibliography is to make it possible to compile a collection of observations of the current literature and put it <em>in the context of your own research</em>. No two people should have the same annotations, since we all have our own research directions and these perspectives frame the key points we get from the articles we read. Furthermore, we can safely jot down the research ideas that we're incubating for our next paper or proposal without the fear that someone will scoop them up and publish them before us (because that would be dreadful!). The annotated bibliography, at least to me, exists as a sort of reading diary - we don't write about what the article is about - we discuss what we can take from it and apply in our future work. And that's the way it should be.

So this raises the question regarding the utility and practicality of putting this out in the open. The obvious advantage is that getting another perspective on an article is always a good thing. Other people will be able to see my thoughts and discussions on the work, search through annotations by tags of keywords, and serve as a really good starting point for a literature review. When I become a Professor, I imagine that a strong wiki containing all of the things I've read while in Graduate School would be quite valuable to my personal army of Grad Student minions.

But aside from that, what do <em>I</em> get out of this? I can easily create a private wiki that only I have access to, so do I get (or lose) anything from sharing it with the world at large? Unlike Open Source software, I won't get any notoriety, and I probably won't get any help or contributions on the project. I love the idea of sharing it in the interest of sharing knowledge and making it a resource to the rest of the world, but there's a lot of potential headache associated with putting this online.

First of all, I have to carefully check what I'm writing before I publish it. While this can help improve the quality of the summary and reflections, I have to filter out anything that I haven't had a chance to publish in order to avoid compromising one of my own papers or proposals. Granted, simply recapping already published literature isn't risky, since it's not like I could publish any of my summaries. As long as I don't subconsciously embed my own research ideas in what I write, I probably don't have to worry about unintentionally sabotaging my career. Besides that, I also have to be careful that what I write is accurate and puts each paper in a good light. I can't introduce any unwarranted criticism, especially if it's based on my own lack of knowledge of the subject matter. I'm not an expert... yet.

Then, there's the copyright mess, which anyone in Open Source would know is a beast all its own. All scholarly articles are derivative works by their very nature - some more than others. I would assume that writing a review and reflection of a paper would fall under fair use, but would compiling a list of reviews and discussions of papers be "too derivative"? The purpose of an annotated bibliography is to make sure that you highlight the portions of another paper that you want to give due credit. I'm not going to go into a long discussion about <em>how</em> they approached the problem or reached their conclusions. I just want to highlight the contributions and the intuition so that I know which paper talked about what, and how I should cite it. So is that too derivative? I wouldn't think so, but copyright law and common sense seem to be disjoint sets.

It's not all about articles, either. I would love to create a portion of the Wiki that has the names and affiliations of the big players in my research area, but it would be <em>really</em> creepy to publish a list like that for the world to see. I don't imagine that my little site would get much notoriety, but it would be really embarrassing for a search for an academic to bring up my little dossier on the person. While it would be really cool to build a list of conferences including history deadlines and link back to the papers that came out of them, conferences don't really have privacy hang-ups the way individual people do.

So all in all, I'm torn. I just don't know what to do. I'm leaning towards going ahead and making the wiki, being <strong>bold</strong> like Wikipedia taught me to be, but I still don't know if it'll be quite as useful to me if I have to deal with the headaches of publishing it for the world to see.
