---
layout: post
title: Know Your Role
tags: blog
---

It seems that when you read the popular articles, the sentiment is that MOOCs are either going to destroy traditional Universities or they're going to fall flat on their faces. <a href="https://chronicle.com/blogs/wiredcampus/minnesota-gives-coursera-the-boot-citing-a-decades-old-law/40542">While Professors in Minnesota have nothing to worry about</a>, other institutions are at risk of being obsoleted by our new robotic overlords. After all, when a computer can do your job, for free, better than you can, what's your role in academic society? Just like in this political season, the middle ground is ignored, but not in today's session of the Research Reading Group.

<a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/09/24/running-a-reading-group">Last month</a>, we looked at scaling large courses using peer review. This time, we looked at scaling them by taking advantage of using <em>hybrid courses</em> - developing online modules once in advance to take the pressure off of leading each iteration of the course. Focusing on a 2002 paper by Yazon, Mayer-Smith, and Redfield<sup>1</sup>, we took a look at how students responded to online, in-person, and combined instructional models in a Junior-level course in Genetics.

I <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/08/31/theorize-first-engage-later">blogged before</a> about learning styles in online classes, and it came up today as one would expect. In a physical classroom, it's not possible to accommodate students of different learning styles, so it's essential to cover many learning styles all at once to make the most out of the classroom time. However, it's important to recognize that online, those boundaries don't exist anymore. Not only is it possible to develop multiple ways for students to learn the material (find research papers, read textbook chapters, watch videos, listen to podcasts), students can build a path to the learning outcomes that serves them best in terms of their learning styles and what they want to get out of the course.

While a concern was raised about the possibility of different delivery media actually containing different content, and that it would be challenging to develop a test to cover all of them, I indicated that was more of a problem with one-size-fits-all assessments and curricula than a problem with the way material is presented. Each unit should have some guiding questions that should be answerable regardless of how the students went through the course, and being able to answer those questions indicates enough mastery to participate in a learning activity in the next class period. Students should be demonstrating their ability to put together large themes more than their ability to regurgitate facts from their textbook, as textbooks come and go.

So once a great online module has been assembled and can be delivered... where does that leave the Professor? Since they were able to automate their chief responsibility and eliminate lecturing, did they just secure more time for their research? Why are students paying tuition when a Professor can just tell students to teach themselves? It's a valid question, and one that has been on the minds of academics everywhere with Stanford, MIT, and Harvard's threatening MOOCs looming just overhead.

In this new world, what is the role of a Professor? Is it to teach? To lecture? To mentor? New Professors have a tendency to teach the way they were always taught, and simply assume the position at the front of the room as a matter of habit. Professors may fancy themselves stage performers, but if I actually believed I was paying to sit in lectures, I'd ask for my money back, because only a few have been outstanding. What Professors bring to the table isn't their slide deck and lecture notes, but rather, a structured plan for what they want students to learn, a means of assessing it, and a history of research in the field they are teaching that they can use to extend the content beyond the syllabus. In an online class, because the Professor isn't in their usual, visible spot, it's important to explicitly and intentionally identify their role to the students, and to articulate their presence as a mentor... but not as a gatekeeper or as a crutch.

The title of the paper poses a question: <em>does</em> the medium change the message? I believe it does, but on a very subtle level. When students get to college, they can no longer expect to rely on an expert to give them all of the answers. The lecture model encourages an unhealthy dynamic between teacher and learner, while the hands-off, open-ended learning that takes place in web courses reinforces the idea that students are <em>ultimately responsible for their own learning</em>. Because there are social cues that can't be replicated in an online environment, a blended classroom can contain the best of both worlds: independent learning at home and collaborative inquiry together. Training and instruction have become synonymous with teaching and learning, but learning is about discovering and making connections <em>yourself</em>. I'm not alone in being a student who <em>says</em> that "lectures fit my learning style", I really mean "it's easier when my teacher does the learning for me". It wasn't until I got to grad school that I realized that was what I meant.

*<sub><strong>1</strong>: Yazon, J. M. O., Mayer-Smith, J. A., &amp; Redfield, R. J. (2002). Does the medium change the message? The impact of a web-based genetics course on university students' perspectives on learning and teaching. <strong>Computers &amp; Education</strong>, 38(1), 267-285.</sub>*
