---
layout: post
title: Pinterest - new social network?
tags: blog
---

I'm pretty slow on the uptake, but I just recently heard of a little site called <a href="http://pinterest.com">Pinterest</a>. From what I can tell, it's like a cross between <a href="http://twitter.com">Twitter</a> and <a href="http://reddit.com">Reddit</a>. Started back in 2010, apparently it's the "new thing" for 2012, since things seem to be picking right up now. I just saw one of my friends on the Facebooks join the site, and Wordpress just added "pin it" buttons for posts (which you'll see at the bottom of this one, by the way). So naturally, I decided to dive right in and take a look at what all the hubbub was about.

So here's the premise: you find a picture that you like on the Internet, and instead of posting it to your local IRC channel, you stick it on a "pinboard" and share it with the rest of the world. By putting all of these pictures on the board, you create a visual cloud that starts to form a picture of what you like. Unlike posting to a Facebook or a Twitter stream, the images all appear in a huge, non-linear clump. Then other folks who are looking for things that they are interested in will come across your pictures and either show their approval by "liking" them or "repinning" them. If everything works out, you have found a group of folks that you have some similar interests with. Successful networking has occurred.

Pinterest has one thing right: the web is not linear. By fitting as many columns of pictures as they can into the browser window, they show what traditional folks would consider an overwhelming amount of information. But here's the thing - it's not overwhelming. We, as human beings, are wired to pick out the things that we like in a crowd, filtering everything else out. So this has got "social imaging" right. I've never used flickr or anything like that, but this seems to have the same idea - though instead of posting pictures that you make yourself, you just find pictures online and link to those.

This is a major part of what makes Pinterest so cool: it's not about self-promotion. It's about sharing the stuff you come across and showing it to everyone else. This is what makes it feel like Reddit. You post a picture, and then you humbly submit it to the fickle Interwebs to mercilessly downvote it to oblivion, hoping for that one moment when your post might make it to the illustrious "front page". But unlike Reddit, it seems to be more attractive to a mainstream audience... a predominately female one, if Wikipedia is to be trusted.

There's this phenomenon on <a href="http://tumblr.com">Tumblr</a> called "reblogging", which I'm particularly fascinated by. Tumblr users will, when they find a blog entry they like, chain together a series of "reblogs" to show their support and appreciation. Unlike a Wordpress blog, which is supposed to be a well-thought out and (in my case) 500-word affair, Tumblogs typically operate under the "less-is-more" paradigm, which I've been wanting to explore for the purposes of sharing links and pictures that I find around the web... without being compelled to write a whole post about them.

I thought about creating a "less-is-more" Tumblog of my own, but I think I'll play around with Pinterest instead... at least for a little while. Check me out <a href="http://pinterest.com/isharacomix">on Pinterest</a>, and if you want in on the fun, just let me know and I'll shoot you an invite.
