---
layout: post
title: Thus Begins Year Two
---

<a href="http://isharacomix.org/2011/08/17/day-zero">A year ago</a>, I attended the NC State New Graduate Student Orientation. Even though I did my Undergrad at State, Orientation was an excellent introduction to the culture of Graduate School, and the folks in charge did an excellent job of delivering all of that information in just a single day. One of the best parts of the orientation was the panel of Graduate Students who fielded questions from the audience about life in Grad School. Today, I attended the Orientation again... but this time, as a member of that panel.

It was a bit intimidating, to be completely honest. Even though I write on my blog as if I know everything, some of the new students' questions really threw me for a loop, even though I had predicted and rehearsed exactly what they asked and how I'd respond. Feeling their uncertainty towards this scary new world they've gotten themselves into made me look inwards and question myself. Am I really anything special? I'm not really the smartest guy in the world, I get C's and everything. The more I think about it, the more I begin to think that life is just a luck-based game - which isn't too far off from being true.

While that seems like a really laid-back attitude to take, there's a more subtle trick to it: even if it's all about luck, with just a little initiative, you have the ability to stack the deck and load the dice in your favor. It's not just about being in the right place at the right time - <em>it's about knowing the right people</em>, and making sure that they know you as well. Technical skills can only take you so far in life, which is wisdom lost on bright-eyed young students... especially in science and engineering.

I owe my success to the people that I've gone out of my way to meet through avenues such as the Linux Users Group, the Computer Science Department, the IEEE, and Preparing Future Leaders. These are the folks who gave me the opportunities I needed to take my career to where it is today, because I was willing to take the initiative and meet their expectations. I've always held the belief that good references are the strongest credentials, and I'm pretty sure I'm not alone in that thought.

At the end of it all, when I was asked to share a piece of advice with our influx of brand new students, I decided to pick the one thing that has been a constant factor in my life since starting Grad School: <em>writing</em>. Grad School is science, and science is writing. I try to write something every day, whether it's a blog post, a diary entry, or even just a comment on a website. The writing of my blog is a fair bit different from the writing I've done on my academic works, but in spite of that, it has still helped make me comfortable with converting my thoughts into words. As a Graduate Student, you are expected to write well and often, so a blog makes a great hobby, whether it's about research... social life... even cooking.
