---
layout: post
title: Am I an Academic Misfit?
tags: blog
---

At <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/10/27/dh-day-at-nc-state">NC State's Digital Humanities Day</a>, I referred to my colleagues in NC State's <a href="http://crdm.chass.ncsu.edu/">CRDM program</a> (and Digital Humanists in general) as "Academic Misfits". Luckily for me, they seemed to find the well-intentioned humor in my playful characterization, finding it a rather succinct way to describe themselves. We are, after all, academics trying to find a place in a field that even has yet to figure out where it stands in the scholarly ecosystem, and nobody knows what to do with us! Nobody knows how we do what we do or how to measure our contributions because there simply isn't any precedent - we're playing by ear and the best anyone can hope to do is watch, listen, and try to follow along.

"Silos" are a common meme when it comes to critique of higher education, referring to how Universities divide their curricula and departments along artificial, arbitrary boundaries that have no connection to how things work in the real world. In an industry job, there are no such things as "disciplines" - you will be expected and required to work in ways that weren't taught in the courses prefixed by your field's three-letter abbreviation. Where one person's job begins and another's ends isn't always clear - quite different from Academia, where these boundaries are much more sanitized and discrete. You can be successful in "Computer Science" without ever working with someone from another discipline or taking any more than the minimum number of humanities and communication courses to meet the graduation requirements. After all... I did that, and ended up graduating <em>Magna Cum Laude</em>. Everyone considered me a great student, and I find that a little worrying now that I look back.

If you happen to love a particular field more than anything else in the world, then the silos actually work in your favor. You wouldn't pursue a Ph.D. in a topic unless you were passionate enough to dedicate your life to it, right? In Academia, your silo gives you a place where you can do just that. You can work on exactly what you want, around people who understand exactly what you do and why it matters. When your colleagues understand you it means that you can prove your worth to them, they can articulate your worth to each other, and they can assess your worth with respect to the practitioners of the discipline as a whole. Silos are safe, focused, and above all: <em>familiar</em>. This is all well and good, until a silo goes from being a comfortable spot to do research to an echo chamber. I don't know if I recognized this when I chose my interdisciplinary focus, but if anything, I understand it now. I've realized that there is no clear-cut place in Academia for me to call home. As an interdisciplinary scholar, Academia doesn't really have a silo for me.

But I'm OK with that - just because my research area doesn't fit into the well-established silos of traditional academia doesn't necessarily mean that it should, right? Not only do I know individual researchers who have the same interests I do, there are entire communities loosely clustered around my research area in the blogosphere and the Twitterverse. There is enough of a scholarly community around my subject of interest for it to be considered a field in its own right. In my case, conferences are the venue of choice for Computer Scientists, so as long as there are conferences that publish proceedings in my field of choice (and there are), then there is a metric to measure my research accomplishments. However this only applies to my peers in Computer Science... what about my colleagues in Education? How do I measure up in <em>their</em> eyes? This is tricky business because even if one institution builds a home for us interdisciplinary scholars, that doesn't mean the rest of the academic community will accommodate us. And even if they could, is that really what we want?

This is why I feel as though "Misfit" is a rather apt characterization. In a career where your standing among your peers matters so much, so steeped in form and tradition, going against the grain is a bit of a gamble. You may become a celebrity and revolutionize the discipline - or you may be the nail that's sticking out far enough to get hammered back into place. I keep one thing in mind while I'm going about all this madness: the reason why I'm pursuing the research I am is because I genuinely care about it. I enjoy learning new things from the research that my colleagues and I perform, and because I'm personally invested in the answers hidden in my work, I'm able to keep myself motivated. Above all else, part of taking ownership of my work is deciding for myself what does and does not fit my field of research - I don't have to let disciplines decide that for me.
