---
layout: post
title: What would happen?
tags: blog
---

*Time for another <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu/people/91/blog/">STARS post</a>! This one was a bit trickier - we were asked to write about the recent experiment where researchers <a href="http://dvice.com/archives/2012/10/ethiopian-kids.php">dropped a box of tablet computers</a> in an Ethiopian village and were surprised to discover what they did with them! Why is it important to teach people computer skills?*

*"What would happen if I opened my class to the world online?"*

This was the logic behind Drs. Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig's idea to open up their Artificial Intelligence class to anyone with an Internet connection. Watching the same lectures and doing the same assignments as students at Stanford, the AI class enrolled 160,000 students paying with nothing more than their time and attention. Even though the class saw 86% of its membership drop out before the end of the course, speaking in terms of absolute numbers, 22,400 students is more students than Dr. Thrun would have taught even if the usual 200 students enrolled every quarter for the next 25 years. When he spoke at Duke University last month, he showed us the e-mails of his students from all walks of life... taking his class from Internet cafes in developing countries, American soldiers deployed overseas, and working mothers in between jobs and raising their kids. All of these people were taking the course in order to learn something that would give them an edge in today's technology-dominated world. This is what encouraged Dr. Thrun to launch Udacity and focus on low-cost education for the world, tens-of-thousands of students at a time.

"What would happen" generally isn't considered a good research question... I certainly wouldn't dare to suggest such a proposal to a funding agency or my dissertation committee. They want to see a research plan that was put together intentionally. They want to see that I've thought through what I want to accomplish with my experiments, and how I intend to interpret the results. However, <a href="http://mashable.com/2012/10/29/tablets-ethiopian-children/">the boxes of tablets</a> dropped in villages in Ethiopia, the <a href="http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2005/04/07/ipod">iPod experiment</a> at Duke University, and even <a href="http://www.i-programmer.info/news/150-training-a-education/3658-sebastian-thrun-resigns-from-stanford-to-launch-udacity.html">Dr. Thrun's AI class</a> were all driven by "what would happen". In this case, the only methodology is to introduce some disruption into an environment, step back, and quietly observe how the environment reacts to the disruption.

Dr. Daphne Koller also came to Duke last month to discuss Coursera, a project similar to Dr. Thrun's Udacity, and she shared her lofty vision of a world where anybody could reach an Internet connection, visit a MOOC, and learn. She told us that thanks to Coursera's Computer Science classes, someone in a developing country can develop the skills needed to get a technical job and acheive a higher level of living within a single lifetime. She even spoke of the possibility in the future of allowing students to make their profiles and portfolios discoverable by potential employers and Universities, allowing them to recruit the brightest minds in their area or across the world. For strong students in developing countries, this could offer a chance at upward mobility. She shared her vision of a world where anywhere that a computer and an Internet could be found, Education... not just in practical and technical skills, but in humananities and cultural studies, could be just a click away (there's a class in <a href="https://www.coursera.org/course/improvisation">Improv Jazz</a>).

Computers and the Internet have changed how we think about Education, and for now, are the cheapest way to get learning across the "last mile". Computers, whether in the form of laptops or smartphones, are the vehicles by which navigating in this age will take place. Even in parts of the world where the Internet can't reach, we can compress hundreds of books onto chips of plastic small enough to be lost in the wind at relatively little cost. By teaching people computer literacy skills... <em>how</em> to find information, <em>where</em> to look, and <em>what</em> to do with it when they get it... we can give them the skills to take ownership of learning and communication, and to take the first steps to closing the education and technology gap.
