---
layout: post
title: Beyond the Lab
---

I love working in the lab - nothing gets me more motivated to get things done than setting myself up in my cubicle. The environment and the people around me remind me that while I'm here, <em>this is working time</em>, which makes me less prone to procrastination and other forms of goofing off (not entirely immune, of course). However, sometimes I'm surprised by how often I see my peers in the lab. It seems like they spend their entire day there... sometimes even the entire night! I'd like to think that there's a point of minimum gains, where you go past the point of dedication and straight into absurdity.

So with that said, it's obvious that I can't stay in the lab forever. It's a great spot for getting work done because it is a static and secluded environment. However, these characteristics make it ill-suited for coming up with new ideas, and new ideas are what good research is all about. This is why I make such an effort to find inspiration for my work through the groups that I participate in. Whether it's a professional organization such as the <a href="http://ieee.org">IEEE</a> or a hobbyist club such like a <a href="http://trilug.org">Linux User's Group</a>, I try to build connections with people both in and outside of Academia who can help give me a fresh perspective on my work.

These sorts of professional and social groups are valuable in that they allow me to share my research with people who "get" technology. Even if I'm digging deep into some obscure technical details in my daily work, I can present what I'm doing at a high enough level for people who are reasonably familiar with the subject area to appreciate the challenges I'm facing and the approaches I'm using. When they don't understand it, they are able to ask the right questions to learn more, and when they see the big picture, they are in a position where they can comment on it themselves. This has more to do with their interest than their intelligence, because if they didn't care, they wouldn't make an effort to learn about it from me. And nothing makes research feel more rewarding than seeing people who think it's interesting enough for them to ask about it.

University-driven initiatives like NC State's <a href="http://http://www.ncsu.edu/grad/preparing-future-leaders/index.php">Preparing Future Leaders</a> program are another avenue for making connections. Unlike the IEEE and LUG, the people I meet in these groups may not fully grasp the technical aspects of my work, they do often give me insight in how my field intersects with theirs, opening my mind to interdisciplinary opportunities. When researchers from diffrent worlds mingle, the possibilties are endless, and that's particularly exciting for me. Yet, even when there is no overlap, these are still the folks who can fully recognize the lifestyle I've chosen by attending Graduate school and pursuing a life in research.

Building these networks of professionals, academics, and peers is a tremendously rewarding effort. Not only does it connect me with people that I can share my ideas with and get feedback from, but the fresh sense of perspective I get from these colleagues and mentors helps keep me motivated and excited about the work that I do. I'm convinced that this ambition and satisfaction with one's work is absolutely critical to the success of an Academic.
