---
layout: post
title: Turning 22
tags: blog
---

```self.age += 1```

Today's my birthday, meaning I'm another year closer to becoming a bitter, cranky old man. Actually, having my age fall immediately after the end of the Spring semester has a number of very interesting qualities. First and foremost, I wasn't even legally permitted to drink until <em>after</em> I had my degree! Supposedly American college culture is all about binge drinking and partying, but I was just too young for all of that nonsense.

On a more serious note (or maybe not) it's nice being able to say that I got my degree when I was unusually young. I was 2 years younger than most of my peers when I got my B.Sc. because I was able to get my degree in three years AND my birthday occurred after the ceremony. So this means that I'll be pretty young if I manage to get my Ph.D. on time. Some folks wonder what my rush is, but it isn't really about rushing so much as it is about being excited enough to keep myself going forward at full speed. That motivation is really the determining factor in getting an advanced degree, since you have to be willing to push yourself to work hard enough at problems that quite possibly don't even have a solution.

Another not-really-serious component of having my birthday at this point is that I've had a week to cool off from the semester and I get a chance to really reflect and look back on the year. I probably should have saved my <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/05/09/one-year-later">year in review entry</a> for today, but I was just so excited about finishing exams that a single Twitter update wouldn't suffice for the occasion. I like to joke that I measure my life in terms of semesters and degrees, since apparently I'm wholly consumed by the academic life... which is pretty accurate to an extent. Once again, motivation is a big part in this. I get so excited about the people I get to work with and the projects I get to do during my Ph.D., and that's what keeps me going. While I may not have a life outside of my studies, don't pity me for doing what I love!

So as far as my birthday plans go, there wasn't much to them. I was originally going to make some amazing dinner or something like kebabs, but this new project has me a little too exhausted to do any experimental cooking. So I kept it simple. I went out with my buddy for dinner, played a little Minecraft, and did some more research (surprise, surprise). Now I'm off to bed so I can get up and get back to work. As far as I'm concerned, summer break is now (already) over.
