---
layout: post
title: A Talk on Coursera
tags: blog
---

Today I had a chance to meet with someone who I would consider a celebrity as well as a person who has had a huge role in inspiring the research that I've decided to pursue - <a href="http://ai.stanford.edu/~koller/">Dr. Daphne Koller</a>, a professor at AI and the co-founder of <a href="http://coursera.org">Coursera</a>, a platform for delivering Massively Open Online Courses. If you don't recall, I <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/07/20/trying-out-coursera">took a course on Coursera this summer</a>, and it was a very interesting experience, but while Dr. Koller spoke about the Coursera model of teaching quite a bit, she also let us know about the data that they collect and how they use it to learn more about human learning itself. But more importantly, she signed my lab notebook!

While the message sounds rather lofty and almost like it's pandering to NSF's "broader impacts" requirements, it has to be said: MOOCs like those offered by Coursera have the potential to really transform the world. Offering low-cost education to places where the resources aren't available for them to succeed has the potential to reveal and connect brilliant minds from every corner of civilization. The beauty of MOOCs is that it teaches primarily through community interaction - creating a global community of learners and encouraging students to build local communities around the topic material to learn from one another.

Looking beyond the MOOCs themselves, I'm also very interested in the data that's being collected and how it's being used, and I'm glad the talk went in this direction. Because MOOCs are extremely popular, it means that they are collecting <em>piles</em> of data that give us tremendous insight into how effective various elements of the course are at facilitating learning. One of Dr. Koller's examples went as follows: if a student answers a question on a quiz incorrectly, and then answers it correctly, you can combine that with which forum posts they accessed in between the two answers. Since these forum posts were read before the student submitted a correct answer, this is potentially evidence that they are "good" posts. We can then do text mining of these posts to predict other "good" posts. There are endless possibilities when you have a data set this rich!

One of the hard parts about making courses web-scale is the assessment. Large scale delivery is trivial with today's technology, but evaluation is still an open problem. Peer review is a subject that I've been studying quite substantially in recent months - lots of papers have suggested that peers are just about as good at evaluating one another as instructors are. Coursera recently tried peer review for its more open-ended corses, and their data reproduced these results, but with <em>one hundred times the data points</em>. The research here is independent of MOOCs, but never before has it been possible to collect and analyze these metrics in an educational sense.

This is the kind of stuff I've been pointing to. This is why I've been so excited by MOOCs, and as a new frontier the possibilities are endless. While I'm jealous that other institutions are getting in on the fun without me, I am excited that I'm not alone in my vision on where we can take this new medium. The new colleagues I have met in the digital humanities have helped me to think outside of the box since they have approached this new field with more creativity than I ever thought I could muster... perhaps this is where I can really begin my interdisciplinary research agenda.

This week is a great week for anyone interested in MOOCs. On Thursday, Dr. Sebastian Thrun, founder of <a href="http://udacity.com">Udacity</a> will also be talking, and the Duke Ph.D. lab will even be holding a workshop on developing a MOOC, meaning that there are going to be lots of opportunities to hear and share ideas on this new educational phenomenon.

You can see the talk yourself <a href="http://divinity.capture.duke.edu/Panopto/Pages/Viewer/Default.aspx?id=c11c14e0-441a-4669-a997-f803c237b206">here</a>.
