---
layout: post
title: Organized or Organic?
tags: blog
---

Even when I'm busy doing research changing the face of education as we know it and networking with amazing scholars from institutions around the world, I try to make sure that I don't lose sight of the simple things in life. After all, while writing papers is fun, it still can't match the joy of finding out a way to reorganize your apartment that nets you an additional square foot of floor space. There's a unique pleasure to sifting through and sorting out old receipts and bills so they'll all be in chronological order for when you fill out your taxes in January. Or finding a new way to distribute keychain flashlights and Sharpies across your various key rings! A place for everything and everything in its place, and when things get disorganized, just toss everything in a pile and start <em>all over again!!!</em>

I think I may have a problem.

The thing that makes me leave projects like the hundreds of projects I've started and never finished has never been due to boredom. Games, websites, blogs, comics... all of them were dropped because I tried to impose too much organization on them. Rather than allowing them to grow naturally, I always end up suffocating my projects under the weight of my own lofty expectations, eventually making them so contrived or over-engineered that they become artificial and unpalatable.

I remember when I first got my own web space, I decided to try to make a wiki about Ishara Comix (the comic book I used to write). The thing I love so much about wikis is how they naturally form connections where you can get from anywhere in the wiki to pretty much anywhere else because everything organically links together. So obviously, the first thing I do is come up with a set of categories where all of the pages will go, how they will be named, how links will be made...

... do you see the problem here? When someone with an analytical mind like mine starts from a blank slate, it's tempting to try to impose order on the world from the ground up. While I recognize and appreciate the beauty of asymmetry at the macro level, I get more obsessed with hierarchy and order as I look at my work more closely. While I appreciate asymmetry and chaos, I find it very difficult to participate in it. When I see something start to fall out of consistency, I drastically oversteer ruining the project in the process.

Part of the chaos on the Internet comes from the crowd. Collaborative tools like Wikis and MUSHes are designed for collaboration. They aren't organic because the technology says they have to be or because the owners made them that way - they were organic because that's just what happens when a bunch of people with different ideas of beauty all create small parts of a cohesive whole that resonates with a kind of structured randomness. When one person makes a wiki, it looks more like a book - with carefully structured sections and rules. Unenforceable at scale, but inevitable when you're in your own private garden.

I'm surprised I've been happy with my blog for so long. Unlike many of my other projects, I've put a lot of effort into making this blog into something that I can be happy with. I care very much about the structure of the thing, making sure that everything I put in feels like something that was put there by me, and not by someone else's rules. At first, I had a Google +1 button that clashed with my design until I finally said that it had to go. When I signed up for the Certificate of Accomplishment in Teaching Program, I put my <a href="http://isharacomix.org/teaching">Teaching Portfolio</a> on the website, but made sure that no matter what the rubric said my portfolio had to look like, I made sure that it looked like what I wanted it to look like. I decided it looked weird to have a teaching portfolio without a research portfolio, so I added one of those too. The class I'm taking at Duke will require me to utilize my website to do some of the class activities, but I will still ensure that no matter how I integrate it, I will do so with style and intention, without compromising the overall feeling of my blog or downplaying the integration. It takes creativity and out-of-the-box thinking to do this, but it's worth it in the end.

Is my site perfect? No, of course not. I'm always fiddling with the site's appearance every now and again in order to get it "just right". I've been worrying about the categories for the site have gotten out of hand, feeling like I put too much stuff under Graduate Life and don't diversify my categories enough. And this blog post is one of the more 'meta' posts - a blog entry about my blog... shouldn't that be in a category all its own? Sometimes I wish I would just toss the whole thing out, migrate all of my posts over to Tumblr, and start over. Is it worth it? Probably not. While it certainly doesn't stop me from obsessing over this desire for "order", I've become more patient to where I've gotten past the impulsive need for <em>order right now</em>. That's a good first step, right?

If I could give all of my projects the love and attention that I give this blog, I think I'd be much more successful. However, unlike my personal programming projects, this is the only platform I consider to be a <em>creative outlet</em>. There's something very therapeutic about writing, and writing also often gets me in the mood to do more writing, which is a good mood for a Grad Student to be in.
