---
layout: post
title: Does Computer Science Need to Grow Up?
---

While I was perusing some academic articles one day, I bumped into a familiar piece of work titled <a href="http://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2009/8/34492-viewpoint-time-for-computer-science-to-grow-up/fulltext"><em>Time for Computer Science to Grow Up</em></a> by Dr. Lance Fortnow discussing the role that conferences play in Computer Science. After a year working as a grad student, I now see what he was talking about. It's an interesting viewpoint, and as an up and coming Ph.D. student, I've obviously got something to say about it.

For those of you not privy to the academic publishing lifestyle, there are usually three types of peer-reviewed venues you can publish in: workshops, conferences, and journals. Journals are big volumes of research papers published from a couple-few times a year, and are typically what one thinks of when referring to a "research paper". Typically, when you come up with something polished enough to publish, you try to shoot to get it published in a prestigious journal, since that carries the support of the peers who rigorously review it. It serves to inform the academic community of your accomplishments and bolster your CV with another bullet point.

Conferences are traditionally "less prestigious" than journals. While journals are for rigorous, in-depth, and groundbreaking studies, conferences were venues for showing work that was still in progress - immature, and maybe even controversial. Conferences were set up so that researchers could meet one another, share their ideas, and then go back home with a new perspective on how to tackle their next big publication... you know... in a journal. Workshops could be considered mini-conferences, since they have the same goal, but at a smaller scale.

Somewhere along the line, though, Computer Science drifted from the "traditional" trends of research by focusing less on the quarterly journal publications and more on the annual conferences in their field. When you speak with computer scientists, they are often concerned more with "Top Conferences" than journal publications, and rightly so - that's what tenure committees are looking for, after all.

There are a number of benefits to this trend - first of all, it means that when important publishable work is created, a presentation of the work is made to the community and people have an opportunity to talk with the author in person while it's still fresh in his or her mind. The social aspect of getting the researchers together to talk about their work is a key component of the conference experience.

But on the other hand, it creates this unnecessary sense of urgency. Conferences are usually held annually (some even being held every other year or so), meaning that you have to time releasing your research with the rhythm of the conference deadlines rather than submitting it to a journal to be published in their next issue. It seems like it adds pressure where it doesn't need to be and takes away from the actual work being done... sometimes I wonder if the conference culture in computer science isn't just driven by the ego associated with Computer Scientists. :)

And what about "alternative venues" such as <a href="https://scholasticahq.com">Scholastica</a>, a "journal management and scholarly community". It's a new kid on the block, and it seems to take the best of both worlds, providing the timeless and on-demand submissions of articles to journals with the always-connected community focus of social networking sites. These types of "publishing communities" look like they could offer tremendous benefits in terms of collaboration and discussion (and the site looks like a lot more fun than Academia.edu). Unfortunately, journal prestige is a bit of a catch-22 (you can't get prestige unless prestigious people submit their work, and prestigious people won't submit to a journal without prestige).

Does Computer Science need to grow up, or does everyone else need to get with the program? I don't really know, and I don't really care either - I'm cool with having my work published wherever it is and then doing public scholarship (blog posts and talks) to get what I have to say out there. In fact, this sort of makes me want to take my Youtube account more seriously and use it for actual research and teaching related stuff.
