---
layout: post
title: Communication, Technology, and Stuff Like That
tags: blog
---

This evening, the Women in Engineering Affinity Group for the local section of the IEEE hosted a great talk by Daun Daemon and Jamie Larsen, two of the professional writing instructors at NC State who I can only imagine are responsible for developing ENG 331, <em>Communication for Engineering and Technology</em>, a course required for all Computer Science undergraduates at NC State. It's basically an introduction to professional writing for folks who are expected to pursue a job in industry. In my case, it was a bit of a  poor prediction - I probably could have used a more research-oriented course to prepare me for the paper I have due in three days, but back then, I didn't even know I wanted to get a Ph.D., so I guess I'll let it slide.

The talk was primarily about a long-term study that they've been conducting on how professionals in various fields from education, engineering, science, and business communicate in their day-to-day duties. They analyze the results and apply them to the material taught in discipline-oriented communication courses like ENG 331, so that students are kept up-to-date on how things work in the "real world". Whether you're flying around the world making million-dollar deals or sitting in a cubicle coding a login page for your boring manager Rob, communication is at the heart of every line of business, and the surveys of these professionals in the field help to reinforce that with both anecdotal quotes and cold, hard numbers.

However, innovations in technology are dynamically changing the way that we communicate. Formal memos have been replaced with e-mails while phone calls are upstaged by Skype and Instant Messaging. Internal communication may be powered by Status.net or Wiki software. And, of course, social networking sites like <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/04/22/on-using-twitter">Twitter</a> are becoming more ubiquitous in our personal <em>and</em> professional lives. With all of this happening, it's clear that we need to rethink a lot about what we think we know about communication. <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/02/01/death-of-the-letter">Is the letter really dead</a>, or has it just evolved into something a little different?

Career-bound students these days need to learn about how to leverage new technology like social media to their advantage. For example, there's a lot of negativity surrounding social networking sites, warning students that "your employers are going to find you!" However, it's been the case that students from my own Computer Science department have not only developed healthy professional relationships using social media, they have also been able to use their presence online to distinguish themselves from their competition and to get that interview with the company they've been following. When I've interviewed with faculty for research opportunities, I've found that some of them have actually searched for me online and found my blog, and have used that as a conversation starter.

The playing field is changing, and students that are able to navigate this bizarre new Web 2.0 world are going to have an edge up on their competition who don't understand or take social networking seriously. Your profile, your tweets, your blog posts, all of these create an unofficial portfolio that employers are bound to find. So if you conduct yourself online already knowing this, you can subconsciously convey the fact that you are a healthy, well-adjusted, professional member of society.

Things seem to be changing really fast nowadays, but it's good to see that once again, the faculty here at NC State are keeping up with the field and making that information available to our students as part of their curriculum. Now if we could just get this information out to Grad Students too...
