---
layout: post
title: IRC and Communities
tags: blog
---

A key part of just about any online community is its discussion forum. Whether it's a forum built into Moodle for a class or the phpBB installation for an Open Source Game, forums make up one of the most common forms of communication for people online. Unlike live chat rooms, forums allow asynchronous communication between people who may be in different timezones or who have conflicting work schedules, and because contributions on a forum are threaded, the discussion becomes an (admittedly difficult-to-read) piece of lasting documentation that can be referenced by the community. Apparently the forum is a very successful form of communication because they always seem to have plenty of people willing to participate.

I don't like them.

I've always found forums to be a very hard medium to participate in. The first issue is that I find myself facing a particularly high barrier to posting anything because I follow the belief that if I don't have anything important or insightful to write, I don't write anything at all. This is what stops me from commenting on many blogs and news articles, and what makes me just slightly more prone to responding to help forums (like <a href="http://daniweb.com">Daniweb</a>). If I don't feel like what I have to say makes a difference, I don't bother saying it. While I think highly enough of my own opinion to post it on a blog here, I'm not inclined to spout off my beliefs on someone else's thread.

I want everything I say to add value to the discussion, I'm not willing to post content-lacking "me too's" to express my agreement, and because I haven't built any reputation with the community, I'm not willing to respond humorously or sarcastically to a post. So the second issue is that I don't feel like I'm able to come up to speed with a community using threaded discussion efficiently enough to consider myself to be part of the community. I find it very hard to build rapport, I never truly feel comfortable participating, and I usually end up leaving fairly disappointed.

Chat rooms are another beast entirely. I love real-time chat, and <em>especially</em> IRC. IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is an old-fashioned chat protocol where any server can be divided into an indefinite number of <em>channels</em>, or chat rooms. You can join these channels and communicate in anywhere small groups of about a dozen people to huge rooms featuring nearly 1000 on any subject imaginable. In a chat room, it's much easier to join in the conversation, since you can freely express agreement, and you aren't expected to have formulated a well-though-out essay when you provide your input.

The best case of me using IRC for school was last year when I took my course in Compiler Construction. Several of the people taking the course were also members of the IRC channel for the Linux User's Group. It only took one person complaining about the homework assignments for the rest of us to come out of the woodwork and happily let everyone know "I'm taking that class too!" We then turned the IRC channel into our study group, and it was great how naturally we drifted back and forth between socializing to coursework and back again. More recently, I'm participating in an IRC channel for the Coursera course I'm taking, and I've met some really awesome people as a result. It's the first time I've ever taken an online course where I felt as though I've actually "met" my classmates.

An interesting aspect of IRC that lots of people don't figure out immediately is that you aren't required or expected to always be communicating. Many chat rooms are mostly filled with people who idle around, waiting to participate until either a friend of theirs connects or a topic of their interest is being discussed, at which point they will awaken and begin adding the conversation whenever they can. However, since they are still there, people who know they have expertise in a particular area can try to wake them up and get their perspective on the conversation. All of this makes it possible to help newbies feel more comfortable more quickly, helping to encourage students to forge connections with one another so they are more willing to seek out and give help when they need it.

The reason why I like IRC is that it feels more <em>natural</em>. Structure, by its very nature, removes the free-flowing informality of conversation and social interaction that makes it such a valuable resource for teaching and learning. Nothing is more frustrating to me than being "forced" to participate on a forum to obtain a class participation grade when my informal (and hard-to-assess) interaction with my peers is more natural and influential than my prescribed "one post and two responses" on Moodle.
