---
layout: post
title: Looking Back and Looking Forwards
tags: blog
---

Today the <a href="http://alumni.ncsu.edu">NC State Alumni Association</a> and <a href="http://lib.ncsu.edu">NCSU Libraries</a> teamed up to give a tour of the library to former graduates with a focus on the amazing new technology that we make available to our students. I already went to this particular event last year (which I can't link to because the event predates my blog), but even though it's only been a year, there was a lot of new material worth checking out.

The NC State Library is a leader in developing resources for students, offering services such as technology checkout, research assistance, lots of space to collaborate, and even places to relax and unwind to play video games or eat NC State homemade ice cream. Even though we don't have a particularly powerful library science program, we attract some amazing people to work in our library network. In addition to the traditional bookstacks, we also have lots of new and cutting edge technology, such as the original prototype behind the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PixelSense">Microsoft Surface</a>. We make this new technology available to students and get a discount in order to do so since we are field-testing to a large group of people in an open space, which makes it beneficial for industry and our students.

A big feature of the library's tour was a look at a small version of what's to be the newest addition to our campus, the <a href="http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/huntlibrary/">Hunt Library</a>, which is the new library that will be arriving on Centennial Campus to serve the specific library needs of Engineering and Computer Science Graduate and Undergraduate students. Technology is a key part of the Hunt Library, and I think of it like a library of the future, where technology changes the way we interact, work, and play together. Because of the very strong game design and game research arm of NC State, there will be designated spaces for gaming, including a museum of sorts containing all sorts of older generations of consoles and games.

Finally, we got a chance to see the historical collections at NC State. Our archivists and curators are working hard to make historical documents such as previous years yearbooks <a href="http://historicalstate.lib.ncsu.edu/">digitally available</a> for the public. Part of the responsibilities I admire most about librarians is their work in archival because archival is not a one-time affair. It must be constantly cared for and carefully migrated from one form of technology to the next, as though bits are just bits, technology becomes obsolete at the drop of a hat, meaning that if data isn't kept current, it can be lost forever.

Part of the fun of being a Graduate Student and going to events like these is getting the opportunity to talk with previous generations of NC State graduates. As I've become much more open and sociable in the past year of my studies as a Grad Student, I found myself chatting with folks from all of the departments of interest from Education to Engineering. It was particularly fun explaining the interdisciplinary focus of my work (Educational Technology), since that fits the sphere of influence that librarians work in. I was even able to convince an electrical engineering alumnus to rejoin the IEEE thanks to our recent push for more activities and outreach.

A lot of what students learn in college isn't really appreciated until years down the road, and at that point, they really have a role to play by staying in touch with the University and letting them know what their institution was able to offer them that worked and helped them become successful. Alumni Associations can be about so much more than athletic loyalties, and by highlighting the value they can bring to the academic sphere, we can further enrich the educational careers of the next generation of graduates.
