---
layout: post
title: USENIX LISA '12
tags: blog
---

Tomorrow, I'm hopping on a plane to San Diego, California to go to my first "big" conference, the 26th USENIX Large Installation System Administration Conference, or <a href="https://www.usenix.org/conference/lisa12">LISA '12</a>, for short. The reason why I say this is my first time at a "big" conference is because it's the first conference I've attended where I'll be <a href="https://www.usenix.org/accurate-identification-network-service-dependencies-distributed-systems">presenting a paper that I actually wrote</a>. The thing I love about USENIX is that when the conference is over, the papers open up to the world, which means my first publication actually got to be in an Open Access venue.

LISA '12 is referred to as an industry conference, which is supposedly "less prestigious" than the academic conferences and symposia run by ACM and IEEE. Out of the 50 papers submitted, my paper was among the 22 that were accepted for publication. While technical sessions make up a pretty solid portion of the conference, the first three days of LISA are actually taken up by hands-on workshops, meaning that LISA is definitely a conference focused on applied system administration and development work. I still joke that one of the original critiques of my paper was that it was "too academic", which both worries me about how I'll fit in to the crowd, but gets me excited about the people I'm going to get to meet!

I was awarded a travel grant to help subsidize the cost of my attendance, and as part of the deal, I'll be serving as a student scribe for the USENIX publication <em>;login:</em>. As I make it a point to summarize every talk I go to anyway, this won't be a particularly overwhelming responsibility. I'll be summarizing a great track of papers on the subject of education and community, which (given my research background) I'll be pretty well-suited to cover, along with a panel discussion on disruptive technologies (though I'm sure that MOOCs will not be among those discussed). Even more interestingly, right before being asked to work for my share of the grant I was awarded, I was recruited to do the same thing for the fine folks at <a href="http://opensource.com">OpenSource.com</a>, who couldn't make it there themselves. It looks like after all this time I'll finally be writing an article for them. Weird how things turn out, isn't it?

It's been a while since I've actually been at a "technical" get-together. As you can imagine, I've got my social media clients tracking the #lisa12 hashtag, I'm in the #lisa12 IRC channel, and I'm ready to network in cyberspace just as much as I am in meatspace. Even with all of the Digital Humanities conferences I've been to lately, I've never seen this much pre-conference activity on the backchannels. Obviously IRC is lower-stakes than Twitter, since you aren't publishing every little thing you say to the entire world. Then again, it seems kind of sad that after making the hard transition from IRC to Twitter, I'm finally going to a conference that actually has a membership that respects the <em>original</em> social network&trade;.

That being said, it looks like the crowd is going to be friendly enough. The IRC channel and Twitter feed have been hopping with activity, and everyone seems to be very excited about getting together for this. At the end of the semester, I'm always at my most uncertain about matters like funding, so hopefully I'll be able to simply push all of that aside and go to a conference with no other pressing responsibilities on my mind. I think I'm ready to admit that I have been pushing myself a little hard, so a retreat and a change of pace to mingle among my more technical colleagues will probably do me a world of good.
