---
layout: post
title: MATHCOUNTS
---

Today I volunteered as a scorer for the <a href="http://mathcounts.org">MATHCOUNTS</a> mathematics competition. MATHCOUNTS is a pretty awesome project where middle school students essentially get together and take math tests in a big contest to see who is capable of doing intense problem solving under heavy pressure. My responsibilities were focused on taking care of scoring the written rounds.

And from what I graded, the problems were pretty hard-core. I can't talk specifically about any of them since it's a national competition and I had to take an oath saying I wouldn't reveal the contents of the tests or any student's answers (I'm a grad student - I know all about FERPA). However, the questions were definitely at high-school level, though I didn't see any differential equations or linear algebra. And rightfully so.

My volunteering was for the State-wide competition, so this meant that the best students from each school came to the <a href="http://www.ncssm.edu/">NC School of Science and Mathematics</a> in Durham, and we had teams from 49 different schools. The winners will go on to the national competition being held in Florida to compete for fame and glory. It's a pretty amazing program, and it was awesome seeing so many bright kids in one place.

While I could probably learn about this from the program website, I'm very curious as to how the students are coached for this program. It's treated analogously to an "athletic" competition (and the students are affectionately dubbed "Mathletes<sup>&reg;</sup>"), which brings up images of algorithmic drilling as opposed to exploration and theory. After all, there are two sides to math: on one hand, students need to know how to do elementary operations such as multiplication and division. However, the reason while algorithms were originally invented were to create simple, easy-to-teach procedures for performing calculations by unskilled and uneducated human computers. Anyone can perform an algorithm if it's directly in front of them. Anyone can memorize it if it's done enough.

On the other hand, mathematics can also be about learning the theory of numbers and learning the intuition behind how different aspects come together. It's one thing to <em>memorize</em> the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fundamental_theorem_of_arithmetic">fundamental theorem of arithmetic</a>. It's another thing entirely to know how to apply it to proofs in math and computer science. That's the difference between trivia and <em>knowledge</em>. Schools these days seem to be more focused on teaching formulas and methods for math, which is why math isn't considered "fun" except for the lucky few who are able to discover the intuition on their own. I really hope that they at least try to explore some of the theory in this program, since after all, algorithms were developed for uneducated workers who can't think for themselves... if this is how we teach our children, what does that say about our opinion of them? Food for thought.

I really wanted a chance to network while I was there, but I had to leave early so I could make it back to NC State to set up for our Engineering Open House tomorrow. And besides, I don't think I do so well when it comes to socializing with the middle school demographic. I'm able to connect with high school students (and parents!) since they're thinking about college and their careers, and are usually interested in hearing about college life from those of us who have survived. Middle schoolers don't even have that on their mind, and quite frankly, they shouldn't. School is just as much about learning how to interact with other people as it is about learning the basics of mathematics and writing.

Of course, high school students don't seem to give grad school a second though. Eight more years of school? Yeah, probably not the first thing on their mind. I'll get that chance tomorrow at <a href="http://www.engr.ncsu.edu/openhouse/">Open House</a>.
