---
layout: post
title: It isn't that bad, guys...
tags: blog
---

*So apparently this blog entry got <a href="https://wordpress.com/#!/fresh/">Freshly Pressed</a>! I'll be honest, I had some mixed feelings about this article being the one to get hit by the spotlight. It's an important article, but it really doesn't serve as a representative sample of what I write about. I've <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/08/29/lets-raise-the-bar">selected</a> <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/09/15/i-may-be-a-closet-humanities-major">a few</a> <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/11/12/taking-part-in-a-virtual-discussion">others</a> that may provide a more well-rounded view of who I am and what I do. If you're new, welcome aboard! I hope you enjoy the ride!*

So, #phdchat is a Twitter chat session that is held on Wednesdays at 19:30 GMT (which is like 14:30 in the afternoon for me) for scholars to discuss theses, dissertations, and research, and while I've been following it for months, it happened to occur while I was available to interact on my feed, so I decided to join in on the topic of "how do you know when a dissertation is done"? Being a fan of considering the Ph.D. as process of developing self-regulation and metacognition, my immediate response is that finding the answer to that question is one of learning objectives of the doctoral program itself. As <a href="http://www.csc.ncsu.edu/people/tmbarnes">Dr. Tiffany Barnes</a> (sitting right next to me at the time) said: "If you're asking that question, you aren't there yet." <!--more #trufax. &rarr;-->

I was following the chat, half-engaged while working on a project, when I noticed a tweet by <a href="http://twitter.com/Comprof1">@Comprof1</a> that I absolutely had to respond to:
<blockquote>@EmmaBurnettx @lizith @ajwooff @NSRiazat Midway is when you realize this isn't "your" thesis, but your work approved by others. #phdchat</blockquote>

If you know me, you know that taking ownership of one's research is a huge part of my philosophy on Graduate education and a life of research in general. I wanted to reply by saying that it was a very sad and depressing way to view the thesis-writing process... but something made me stop in my tracks.

This blog entry isn't about my philosophy of taking ownership of your work. It's about how when I read my very sincere reply, it didn't look very sincere. In fact, it felt like I was reading one of the self-deprecating jokes that make up a large bulk of Graduate Student culture. I was genuinely worried that what I was writing would not be taken seriously, and restructured my reply so that it better represented how I felt. Why would I feel that way?

This "humor", if you can really call it that, is something that is prevalent among Graduate Students. We poke fun at ourselves for choosing a "life of poverty". We bemoan spending "far too long" in Universities doing research that nobody cares about with adversarial advisors that work us to the bone. I've been there, I've <a href="http://phdcomics.com/">read the comics</a>, and I've probably engaged in some of that in my blog. But when I do, it's just a joke, because I could not be happier or <em>more proud of myself</em> for choosing the career I've chosen. That much should be apparent from the tone of this blog. Some of my colleagues make fun of me for being as positive about my research as I am: they tell me I'm trying too hard, that I'm young and naive, and that one day I'll realize that I'm wrong. My first issue with that is that it's only <em>self</em>-deprecating when you are making fun of yourself - don't rain on my parade, guys. But even more troubling is that it makes me wonder <em>to what extent do Graduate students believe this stuff</em>, and <em>how do others perceive us when this is our attitude</em>?

I understand that the reason why self-deprecating humor is so prevalent is because it builds a sense of solidarity. When we're beat down and exhausted, it's encouraging to see that we aren't the only ones going through our troubles. The Ph.D. can be a lonely path where even our colleagues have trouble understanding what we do each day. However, we've all had to put up with frustrating departmental policies, absent-minded advisors, and long nights in the lab. The suffering essentially becomes the common ground between us, no matter our disciplines. The problem is that while it produces solidarity between <em>us</em>, it makes us harder to relate to with the rest of society - the people who will supposedly benefit from the research that we are doing. It makes us inaccessible to the non-academic.

Is this attitude really how we want to be perceived?

We, as Grad Students, are the driving forces behind many of the scientific advancements in this world. Our work is moving mountains and changing lives. The common ground between us should not be the hard times that come and go, but the passion for our field that makes us stay with it <em>in spite</em> of the difficulties.
