---
layout: post
title: Getting Settled into LISA '12
tags: blog
---

Today is my first full day at <a href="https://www.usenix.org/conference/lisa12">USENIX LISA '12</a>. Despite spending about seven hours on airplanes and gaining three hours by going west through time zones, I've mostly figured out how I'm going to move around from session to session, how I'll take notes, and how I'll socialize for the next few days.

Last night, I went on an adventure with some of the other folks to Old Town in San Diego, a historical museum district full of restaurants and gift shops. We went out for a Mexican dinner and then explored until the dead of the night. It reminded me of the spontaneous trip to Walmart when I was at the STARS Celebration in Hampton, and I'm glad I was able to get here and join a party in only a few hours. It definitely started the conference off on the right foot. Vint Cerf's keynote today was equally inspiring, beginning with a history of the Internet, some of the current directions of engineering and research with communications technology, and wrapping up with a science-fictiony vision of how an interstellar Internet backbone would work. Without a good keynote, the rest of a conference just feels like a waste of time, and we had ourselves a <em>good</em> keynote.

While I ended up missing the "Women in Computing" and "PGP Keysigning" Birds-of-a-Feather sessions last night, the main reason I come to conferences is for the <em>informal</em> teaching and learning. There is nothing quite like trading technical knowledge in between bouts of silliness while wandering aimlessly around in the streets, which is a crucial part of what makes unconferences and hack days fun and awesome. When I was in Bonaire, part of the what ended up making it a great trip came from leaving the resort and heading out into the city to take part in the night life. I don't want "fine dining" when I go to another city - I want to participate in the lifestyle and culture of that city.

One of the rules of conferences that I've learned to follow is to "skip the talks and check out the posters". While I'd never skip all of the talks, I spent most of today checking out the posters and vendors. One of the most interesting was one that was focused on industry/academic collaboration in System Administration curricula, which attracted a number of brilliant overlapping conversations about the role of the University when it comes to developing practical skills. As for the vendors, I met a bunch of great folks, including representatives from the IEEE Computer Society, the Free Software Foundation, and O'Reilly, all of whom had great things to talk about when it came to technology and education. All in all, today has been excellent.

While the in-person networking has been very fulfilling, numerous technical difficulties have killed my attempts to participate online. I usually complain about people not bringing enough devices to participate in the Twitter backchannel when I go to a conference. Here, I'm confident that the average number of devices per attendee is greater than one, meaning that the poor router trying to support all of us at once is howling in agony under the stress (the paradox of technical conferences). I'm sure that later sessions will be easier to work with, since I predict that Cerf's keynote probably had the highest concentration of USENIX folks of any of the events we'll see, but even if the wireless did get better, it won't do me much good since my stupid Bluetooth keyboard was switched on in my luggage, killing the batteries. I didn't bring any spares because I figured I wouldn't need any (#rookiemistake), but I'm not paying seven dollars for two AAA's.

That brings me to my last point to ponder... if the in-person interaction is good, do I need the Twitter and IRC chat in the first place? So far, the best usage of the channels are for participating when I'm not there in person (and/or coordinating dinner plans when the dinner board is empty). My research notebook is getting a workout after all, and that will only get more intense as I attend the education and community talks that start up tonight! If I keep trying to make this tablet work for me, I'm just going to end up missing everything, so I'm going to focus on getting as much from the talks, posters, and informal socialization as possible and so I can recap the highest points in blog entries: my true medium for communication.
