---
layout: post
title: Disregard Ubuntu, Acquire Fedora
tags: blog
---

I've been a hardcore <a href="http://ubuntu.com">Ubuntu</a> fan since I started my Undergrad career, and it's been a fun ride, but I've finally reached the point where I'm just tired of dealing with it, and have switched to <a href="http://fedoraproject.org">Fedora</a>. The latest changes to Ubuntu have gotten me completely fed up with the way that the community is running things, and their insistence on introducing new features is making it harder and harder for me to get any work done. I generally prefer to keep the OS as close to the default as possible, so that upgrades and reinstallations don't end up becoming a jarring experience for me. However, lately, it seems like it's more work for me to keep my OS the way I like it, and while I was open-minded enough to give Unity a shot, Ubuntu and I are going in completely different directions now, and there's no point in clinging to it any longer.

So first, a little background. Originally, both Fedora and Ubuntu started off with Gnome 2, which is the window manager and UI experience that most flavors of Linux use. However, starting around last year, Ubuntu has switched to Unity, and Fedora to Gnome 3. I stay about a year behind the latest and greatest Ubuntu, but this past Thursday, 12.04, the latest Long-Term Service release came out, so I decided to give it a shot.

Let me remind you of what I've said before: I have two laptops, one is 4 years old, the other is 7, and they are both 32-bit machines. They don't have any fancy graphics processors, and yes, I know it seems like I'm living in the past. I see no reason to pay hundreds of dollars for a new computer when I have two that work perfectly fine. I happily spent less than a hundred getting some new RAM for them, and that should get me another year or too at least.

However, Unity doesn't seem to care about that. The overuse of graphics effects like translucency slows my 7-year-old down to a crawl, making it slow to even use the terminal. This is completely unacceptable, and it is practically impossible to change any settings regarding the UI without diving into configuration files that can break your entire build if you use four spaces where a tab should go. I'm not about to custom-script my OS so I can turn off what should be a completely cosmetic effect. The inability for me to set preferences the way I like removes the features of Ubuntu that originally drew me to it in the first place.

But it's even more fundamental than that. Ubuntu prefers to support newer hardware than older, throwing my equipment under the bus by causing boot-up to completely freeze because my it can't find the driver for my old wireless card. It can't even boot into the LiveCD unless I set Grub to blacklist my wireless card in the first place, stopping the OS from looking for it. This is unacceptable, and between this, the lack of customization, and the sluggishness, I've officially given up.

Gnome 3 isn't much better in terms of customization, but luckily, it has all of the configuration editors that I've used to tweak Gnome 2 back in the day. So in just minutes, I solved the issue of not being able to minimize my windows. Gnome 3 is also speedier, even on my <i>old</i> laptop, meaning that I can actually work on it seamlessly. While it gives me more screen real-estate, it seems to be obsessed with whitespace, putting a lot of jarring emptiness around buttons and menu options, but I'm sure I'll figure out how to get rid of it soon. Fedora's biggest win comes from supporting my wireless card right out of the box, though. It doesn't get much better than that.

I'll probably stick with Fedora 16 for a while. When exams end and I finish my paper, I'll swap out the OS on the good computer too.
