---
layout: post
title: Theorize First, Engage Later
---

I've already mentioned that <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/08/01/irc-and-communities">I don't care much for forums</a>, and that i find them frustrating and overwhelming. They are too hard to keep up with, since they move in real time when you're away and not when you're present. I've recently found a pretty cool paper that lets me know that I'm not alone. The name of the paper is <em><a href="http://eprints.port.ac.uk/5606/1/Blogs_and_Forums_as_Communication_Tools_in_a_MOOC.pdf">Blogs and Forums as Communication and Learning Tools in a MOOC</a><sup>1</sup></em>, but don't let the title fool you, since it's more about learning styles and preferred means of digital engagement than MOOCs themselves.

The study was about a Massively Open Online Course offered a few years ago where the students were encouraged to engage with the material and each other using any technology they felt comfortable with. The two most popular technologies were the Moodle forums and student-generated blogs. Some used either forums or blogs exclusively, some used both, along with any other combination of the two with additional technologies. What they discovered was something that I've been thinking about for a long time.

Learning styles are many, but one of the key distinctions are made between students who are <em>active</em> learners versus students who are <em>reflective</em> learners. Active learners learn best by diving right into the material, getting burned in trial and error, and pure and simple experimentation. Reflective learners prefer to let the material soak in before they begin working, getting a full mental model for how to approach a problem and then solving it with the intention of getting it right on the first try.

The way the authors put it, active learners engage in the material first, and then reflect on what they learned from their engagement afterwards. Reflective learners, on the other hand, don't engage until they have a grasp of the material. The authors discovered that forum usage was more indicative of the "engage first, reflect later" crowd, since they preferred to participate in the fast-paced forum discussions even if they ended up missing something, because they wanted to experience as much of the content as they could before they tried to make sense of it. Reflective learners preferred the quietness of a blog, since they had all the time in the world to compose a well-thought-out blog entry before they had to post it, and then any comments on the blog were manageable enough to where the author never had to worry about missing any of them.

While blogging may seem more solitary than forums in nature, they also did something I've been wanting for a while as well, which was setting up an aggregator for the blogs and creating a sort of "Freshly Pressed" within their community. This inspired the bloggers to develop a network of their own that was more moderately paced and manageable than the chaotic forums, which sounds pretty awesome considering how much I love the Wordpress.com ecosystem.

Among others, the reason why I hate forums is that I really don't want to miss anything that anyone says! It's so frustrating to have to log on and log back into a forum and see dozens to hundreds of unread posts. In a small classroom with 20 people, it's managable. In a class with 200 (<a href="http://mooctalk.org/2012/08/28/mooc-planning-part_5/">or 35,000, in the case of a MOOC</a>), it's a nightmare. I just can't do it - or rather, I can't personally get anything out of a forum with that much activity.

This is the same reason why large groups bother me. I wish I could just stop time during a group discussion to collect my thoughts, because I can't really build an idea on the spot like others can. Everyone wants a chance to speak, so the conversation keeps going and remains at a very shallow level. On the other hand, when it's just me and one or two others, I really get an opportunity to talk in depth. The reason why I prefer blogs to most other forms of social media is the depth - I get to write about my life at length and read into the lives as expressed by others.

The weird thing about getting into education when you're a student is that you start analyzing everything you've taken for granted in school. I imagine it's even weirder for psychologists.

*<sub><strong>1:</strong> Mak, S., Williams, R., &amp; Mackness, J. (2010). Blogs and forums as communication and learning tools in a MOOC. <strong>Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Networked Learning 2010</strong>. (pp. 275–285).</sub>*
