---
layout: post
title: So I got Freshly Pressed
tags: blog
---

Yesterday, my post on <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/11/21/it-isnt-that-bad-guys">self-deprecation in Academia</a> was <a href="https://wordpress.com/#!/fresh/">Freshly Pressed</a>. 1000 visits, a dozen comments, countless new followers... it's been a rather excited experience. Through all of the chaos of approving and replying to comments, the question I keep asking myself is out of all of my writing over the past year and a half... <em>why that one?</em> It's ironic that my post ranting about the negative attitude of most academics would be one of the more negative posts on my blog, and it hardly conveys the attitude of academics that I would like to see more of in my career. While I've had mixed feelings about this entry being the one that introduces me to the world, but even if it isn't a representative example of what I write about, it's a pretty accurate depiction of how I <em>feel</em>.

Once I was Freshly Pressed, the first thing that I did was search my archives to find a more balanced selection of articles that would provide a well-rounded view of what I write about - I would hate for folks to think that all I do on this blog is rant about things that bother me in Academia. After all, as a scholar who is supposedly passionate about the world-changing research I do in education and technology, surely there are more positive and inspiring things in this three-semester-long record of my studies... right?

As it turns out, I write very little about my own research. Most of the things I've covered here have been conferences and workshops that I've attended or presentations that I've given. I tend to give more perspectives on how I feel about other people's research rather than writing much about my <em>own</em> ideas and accomplishments. It's not as though my own ideas don't inspire me to write about, but seeing what others say and do has that "newness" factor associated with them that provides a fresh perspective on my own work and gets me excited to share that through my blog. As I'm only a little over a year into my program, I still haven't had (or taken) the time to execute the experiments to begin putting all of my ideas to the test. Dreaming big makes experimental design a monumental task, so most of <em>my</em> research has been dedicated to reading the research papers of others. "Changing the world" isn't a research direction, and reading my previous writing made me think about coming up with smaller, discrete, realistic goals to pursue during my studies... and actually writing about them when I make them happen.

So... do I regret this post being the first writing that people see of me? Of course not. I admit, it's a fairly conceited post written in a holier-than-thou tone, but the core issues remain the same: self-deprecating humor, in the same way that it provides solidarity among members of the subculture, serves to <em>exclude</em> others from understanding it. The fact that we stay up to the wee hours of the morning in our labs running simulations is not the point that defines us, but the <em>motivation</em> to do so because we believe that what we're doing is making an impact. When we accentuate the former over the latter, do we really have any right to complain that we are "misunderstood geniuses"?

Each blog entry here is simply a random snapshot of whatever I'm thinking about or doing at the moment, and no single one of them can really convey what my blog or my research is all about. Here's hoping that my positive message made it through the ranty exterior and encouraged folks to follow along as I continue to document my experiences through the Graduate program - with more of <em>my own</em> research along with it, I promise. :)
