---
layout: post
title: 0x10c!!!
---

Yesterday, Notch (the creator of <a href="http://minecraft.net">Minecraft</a>) released the specifications for the main attraction of his new game, <a href="http://0x10c.com">0x10<sup>C</sup></a>, the DCPU-16 processor.  The DCPU-16 is a 16-bit CPU reminiscent of old processors like the 6502 and Z80, and it serves to power your space ship.

That's right. I said space ship.

0x10<sup>C</sup> is an upcoming sandbox space game with a programming twist. While you can do all the regular fun stuff in space games, like fly around, mine, trade, and dance on the bridge with your crew, the fun (for me) comes from the fact that your space ship and all of its equipment is run by a computer for which YOU get to write the OS. That means everything from your weapons to your shields to your video games are all run on this machine, and it's up to clever programmers like me to create software to efficiently manage the system.

Not much on the game has been released yet, the CPU specs are only a draft and very volatile, but already we've seen a huge community explosion in just two days. <a href="http://0x10cwiki.org/index.php?title=DCPU-16">Tons of emulators and assemblers</a>, <a href="http://0x10cforum.com">a forum</a> that grew by 300 members in its first night, <a href="http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=0x10c%2C0x10c-dev">IRC Channels</a>... I'm glad I got in on the action early, and I'm sure it would be a sociologist's dream to study just how amazing the community response to this was...

But that's not what I'm thinking about. You see, because of my commitments to the Ph.D., I can't ever hope to dedicate the attention necessary to keep up with all the folks playing this game. Sure, I made an emulator and assembler really quickly, but that was for my own benefit. The other software out there is already much more refined, accurate, and efficient, and the authors are more flexible to changes in the spec than I would be. There's no reason for me to try to compete with that group. I'm too slow and methodical, and I have preconceived notions about how I believe a proper assembler should behave. There's no point in me duplicating the work of the rest of the player base.

So how can I stand out? Doing what I love to do, of course: teach. Anyone can teach, few can do it well. While you can write a piece of code and send it off into the ether to be used and abused, a human teacher that can work with you to help you learn material is invaluable, and I can be distinctive not in the code that I write, but in the educational materials I create. Right now I'm working on a book to introduce folks into ASM using the DCPU as a motivating example. When the game hits the ground, I'm thinking about running virtual classes, using my own machine as a presentation board to hold lectures, workshops, and other activities for the benefit of the community. Even in a game, it's still a chance for me to build my teaching experience on something that I'm passionate about.

Furthermore, as a security researcher, I'm quite interested to see how the computational ecosystem evolves. There's already a lot of talk of "viruses" and whatnot, and while the majority of folks pontificating about them on forums don't know what they're talking about, if any in-game security outbreaks do manage to occur, it'll be amazing to see the technical behavior and the human reaction to them.

The emergent gameplay this game is capable of already has me drooling. No matter which field you're in, there's something for you in 0x10<sup>C</sup>.
