---
layout: post
title: Networking Overload (Part 3 of 3)
---

*On Thursday, October 4, 2012, I went to three spectacular events held across Duke University and UNC Chapel Hill. I couldn't bring myself to try to fit them all into a single blog post. Today is the final post, recapping a meeting following the spirit of THATCamp this year.*

Last month, I went to <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/09/15/i-may-be-a-closet-humanities-major">THATCamp</a>, a get-together between digital humanists from around the Triangle. THATCamp was led by the student group <a href="http://semaphoreworkinggroup.org/">Semaphore</a>, a Duke-UNC partnership dedicated to bringing together students interested in various topics on the Media-Technology spectrum. They recently held a workshop titled <a href="http://semaphoreworkinggroup.org/2012/10/01/code-in-the-classroom-new-techniques-in-pedagogy/">Code in the Classroom</a>, and we had an excellent discussion on teaching technology predominately outside of Computer Science and Engineering.

During our discussion, we came to several striking realizations. Firstly, it turns out that it is in fact possible to teach those silly Humanities scholars how to code. While some thought it was sufficient to leave students with principles of coding, others believed students needed to get down and dirty in 1s and 0s without having it filtered through user-friendly interfaces. Many students considering degrees in Instructional Technology or Digital Humanities want to take advantage of very advanced concepts such as image recognition, machine learning, and visualization, but still lack the basic foundation they would get in a Computer Science course. While I have a lot of things to say about Computer Science curricula in general (and by in general, I mean at NC State), I'll save that for another day.

What I find interesting are the ways in which these Digital Humanities scholars utilize "just-in-time" learning to avoid overwhelming their students with syntax. They introduce and motivate the tools, and leave learning the intricacies to themselves. By providing a context to set the stage for learning how to use the tool, they teach them more effectively than a "formal" course in Java or C is able. The job of a teacher in a Computer Science course isn't to deliver the language to the students: half the class knows the language and the other half can't learn it by listening to lectures. The role of the teacher is to give the students a <em>reason</em> and a <em>framework</em> to learn it themselves. The best learning doesn't come from the instructor explaining how the Unity game engine works, but in the <em>student being limited by the tool as it comes and having to learn how to extend it in order to get it to do what they want</em>.

Even more importantly, however, we converged to a certain point that we make enough assumptions about our students' technological aptitude that understanding one's way around a computer should be considered a basic aspect of literacy. In 2012, it is no longer acceptable for a student to get through college and not understand what "make a shortcut" or "save a plain text file" means. The tech literacy courses that I took in elementary and middle school were painfully broken, as we went through the same motions of creating PowerPoints and Excel Documents year after year. The most advanced project we had involved making a website, but the assessment was so spotty that I doubt anyone's HTML was actually functional.

At NC State, we take E115, which is the computer literacy course required for all Engineering Undergraduates. This goes over basic concepts from E-mail and directory structure, to advanced subjects like hardware and remote shell connections. With computers consuming every aspect of our lives, there is no excuse to allow people to go on not understanding how they work at least at a high level. I don't know if I would go so far as to say that knowing <em>code</em> is essential for literacy, I would be willing to make the claim that every college student should be exposed to code in some capacity, as it is a fundamental part of what our society has become.

What I find most striking, however, is that if teachers of these Humanities courses are able to cultivate novice technologists into understanding everything between AppInventor and JavaScript, then <em>what is Computer Science doing wrong?</em> There is a big push for broadening participation in Computer Science, but for all of the effort and money we've been throwing at the problem, has it really never occurred to any of these researchers to reach out across the aisle and ask the Digital Humanities folks how <em>they</em> do it?

Part of why I love Semaphore and everything it stands for is in its commitment to diversity. I don't mean diversity in the sense of gender and ethnicity, but in disciplinary viewpoints and backgrounds. The fields represented on Thursday night encompassed everything from Library Science to History, English to Computer Science... even Geology! There is so much we can learn when we step out of our silos, step back from our traditions, and take a look at the world as a whole, taking in everything and sorting it out later rather than selectively ignoring the things that we are taught "aren't important" in our fields.

That brings my adventures last Thursday to a close. Feel free to join in the discourse by commenting here or Tweeting <a href="http://twitter.com/isharacomix">@isharacomix</a>. After all I've covered in the past 2000-some characters, I must have struck a nerve <em>somewhere</em>.
