---
layout: post
title: Yay (cough) it's 2012!
---

Check it out! It's a brand new year, I survived my first semester as a Ph.D. student guy, and I'm stuck at home, sick as a dog. Things don't get much better than this.

So moving into this next year, let's think about the direction of the Grad Blog. Granted, I haven't had a whole lot of visitors, subscriptions, or comments, but I really don't care too much. Believe me, I'm more irritated that a search for my name does not bring up this site like it should, but there's not a lot I can do about that. This new Wordpress place has been generally gorgeous and I'm quite happy to set up shop here and call it my home for the next while or so.

Most of the content here has been fairly inane and self-focused, as if this was nothing more than a public journal where I talk about all the amazing things that I cook (and since I've been sick for the entire Christmas break, I haven't cooked anything lately). However, perhaps I should branch out a bit, and talk about technical things, political things, open source things, and what not. That's what Linux-users are supposed to blog about, right? So maybe I should get with the program and do the same thing.

I also really need to get back into programming and drawing, which I don't do nearly enough lately. Research and coursework have essentially consumed my life (at least, apart from this break where sickness has consumed my life), meaning that I've hardly explored any of my favorite hobbies in the past year. I've considered actually shelling out and buying a radio transmitter so I can do some ham radio stuff. It might even be fun to connect some USRPs to some Arduinos and make some of the most expensive wireless prototyping things in the world. But instead of that, I'm going to be a bit more conservative with my money and get a cheap hand radio or something.

So on the to-do list for 2012:

 * Divisive Political Rants
 * Boring Technical Rants
 * Programming Projects
 * Drawing

So let's get some rest, hopefully recover and get back on the ball with research tomorrow. Man, I feel awful.

