---
layout: post
title: Coursera Wrap-Up Post
tags: blog
---

In all the excitement of getting to teach my own class this semester, I completely forgot to give a final report on <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/07/20/trying-out-coursera">the Coursera Course</a> I was trying out last month. So to make up for not posting anything this week, I'll write up everything I liked and didn't like about my Coursera experience.

So first, some background. Since I was joining the Expertiza project starting this Fall, I decided that I needed to learn a little bit of Ruby and Rails so that I could quickly start contributing without slowing anyone down. The course itself was actually a course on Software Engineering, using Software-as-a-Service as its motivating methodology, and Ruby as its motivating language. While I question the pedagogical choices in this case, the delivery was very strong and I managed to come out of the course knowing Ruby, Rails, and making a new friend! While I think there were things that the instructors could have done differently, there were also things that <em>I</em> could have done differently.

As far as the course structure goes, each week, we covered a chapter worth of material from <a href="http://saasbook.info/">the textbook written by the instructors</a>, and watched about an hour of lecture. The lecture, however, was broken into small, bite-size "lecturettes", about 5 to 8 minutes each, making them more manageable than a distance-ed course where one has to sit through watching a professor run through the course material in a single cut. Furthermore, at the points in the lecture when the professor would stop and ask the class a question, an embedded multiple choice question was presented to the viewer, giving them a chance to quickly internalize the concept and dissolve misconceptions. In theory, lecturettes should be easy to follow, but since the instructors preferred to make them companions to the book rather than as a "multimedia textbook", I found them hard to watch, since it felt like they rushed to cover a lot without going as in-depth as they could have.

The homework, on the other hand, was completely different. Because this project revolved around developing Rails web apps, the course staff used an autograder that would visit our hosted application and ensure that it met the specifications, and nothing was more conducive to me learning Ruby and Rails than doing these assignments. During my Undergraduate career, when we submitting coding assignments for classes, we had to provide an archive of our code and hope that the instructor would be able to successfully compile it. Nothing was more frustrating than having my code sitting in the locker with me waiting to see what my grade was going to be. In this class with thousands of students, on the other hand, that model would not be scalable, so the automated grader that visited our servers and gave us <em>instant feedback</em> was extremely helpful when it came to me trying to learn Ruby. Even thought automated testing can't inspect the code as deeply as a human can, when I see the autograder give me that beautiful number of "100", I can't help but feel proud that <em>I got it</em>.

While the course was developed in order to teach the art of Software Engineering to the world, the instructors also had another goal in mind, which was to debug the alpha version of their book before recommending it to professors teaching Software Engineering, and that's the brilliant part of it! MOOCs give you an opportunity to crowdsource a class and find the shortcomings in the textbook, assignments, and syllabus of a course. As much as I hate to say it, MOOCs are perceived as much lower-stakes programs than formal courses because students aren't paying for them and aren't in danger of slowing down graduation if they fail because the professor tried a classroom experiment that didn't work. This makes it a great place to field test educational resources, because the number of students who will be taking part in the experiment makes the results much more meaningful than in a small classroom environment.

But the one thing that was most surprising of all was that I actually got to interact with <em>people</em> in this course. I despise forums, but since we got the people in the IRC channel, was able to meet folks and even meet a new colleague! I didn't expect that to happen, so any preconception that connecting people through MOOCs is not possible has already been shattered for me. I left the class about halfway through to deal with more pressing concerns, but I was able to learn what I came to learn and meet enough people for it to be worth it. The next step is to participate in a MOOC, but as an active participant... not a lurker.
