---
layout: post
title: Summer freeLearning Conference
---

So I passed my Qualifying Exam on Wednesday, and to celebrate, I went with one of my professors to the <a href="http://lts.appstate.edu/summer-freelearning-conference-2012">2012 Summer freeLearning Conference</a> that was held at Appalachian State University. It was quite an interesting experience, and like the NCTech4Good conference held a few months ago, this conference was basically dedicated to <em>applying</em> technology, but in the classroom rather than in the non-profit sector.

I learned a whole lot about the perspectives of teachers as users of software - we had representation everywhere from K-12 to Higher Ed, and a large number of attendees were librarians and technology specialists. There were very few Grad Students there - I only met one during the day - but I suppose since this conference doesn't publish proceedings, Grad Students don't see much reason to attend. It definitely wasn't an <em>academic</em> conference, but as I've said before, life isn't all about scholarly publications.

So as far as the sessions go, we missed the keynote (it was a three hour drive from Raleigh in some terrible rain and fog), but arrived just in time to make it to the first talk. Each session was divided into four talks, so you could only go to (at most) a quarter of the events. My first talk was on <em>blended learning</em>, which is like a cross between traditional instruction and distance education. Part of the course is worked on at home via the Internet using message boards, Skype, or other communications technology. Classroom time, when used, is used for large group discussions and real-time activity. In this model, students don't usually come to class twice a week for two 75-minute lectures, but instead come once a week to get up to speed with the rest of the class.

The second talk was a talk on the <a href="http://ncssm.edu">North Carolina School of Science and Math</a> (the same school that I went to when I <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/03/16/mathcounts">volunteered for MATHCOUNTS</a>). In this talk, we discussed some of the software that the NCSSM faculty use to deliver online lectures, one being <a href="http://voicethread.com/">VoiceThread</a>, which is an amazing piece of software that I had actually heard about last night at the July TriLUG meeting (small world)! VoiceThread, which probably deserves a blog post of its own, is an amazing tool that allows a teacher to upload a video, and then students can annotate that video with text, audio, drawings, or videos of their own - whatever it is they feel the most comfortable with. This creates the opportunity to have a dialog using multimedia, and even in asynchronous distance education, students don't lose the opportunity to be part of the class discussion.

During the next talk, after lunch, we had a discussion on the use of Twitter for professional development. We all know what a big fan of Twitter I am, and this talk helped share the microblogging gospel with the misguided unbelievers. Too many people have preconceived notions about what Twitter is, but the truth of the matter is that Twitter is what you make of it. What the speaker decided to do is make his role on Twitter one of a curator of content. He monitors his feed for interesting links and documents and then forwards those to his followers. Unlike my Twitter presence, which contains professional, personal, and pity-parties, he decides in advance how he wants to participate, and having a mental model about how you intend to use a tool is the first step in using it correctly. This is why I decided not to go with a Wiki for building my annotated bibliography.

Finally, we had a rapid-fire talk of just about every piece of educational software on the Internet. The speaker created a <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/bloomsdigitalweb20/">one-stop shop</a> for any kind of tech you could need from class engagement to teaching portfolio management, nearly everything on this list is free to educators and available on most public school networks (since some sites - sadly, many that are very conducive to education, are blocked). Of course, depth wasn't the issue here. Unlike the previous talks that covered just a few tools in depth, this talk really helped whet the appetites of the attendees who chose it as their last talk of the day!

I'll probably delve into deeper detail on these subjects in later blog entries, but I just wanted to get them off my chest now while I'm still excited about them. There were a few talks I wished they would have covered (such as those on Open Educational Resources), but maybe I'll just have to answer the call for participation next year myself.
