---
layout: post
title: Why Save 'Computer Science' for College?
tags: blog
---

Last week, the Department of Computer Science hosted a workshop and tour for a local high school's Computer Science class. We turned the lab I teach in each Thursday into a playground where each computer was loaded up with <a href="http://yoyogames.com">GameMaker</a> and we spent an hour helping the students put the beginning elements of a computer game together. Not only did I help facilitate this workshop, using GameMaker for this event was actually my idea. As someone who gave a talk on why Python was the best language to start with programming, why on earth would I propose a GameMaker workshop?

My goal was simple: in one hour, I wanted to plant a seed in the minds of the students attending our workshop that programming was something easy that they could do at home without having someone around to hold their hand while they explored the possibilities. By showing the students that we could get a character moving on the screen in barely five minutes, my goal was just to inspire and motivate students to go home and try this technology out for themselves. In other words, my only outcome was <em>play</em>.

Does this sound familiar? Even though the <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/11/12/taking-part-in-a-virtual-discussion">conference</a> at Duke was just three days prior to the event, my intentions for this exercise were reinforced and formalized. Part of the beauty of technology is that it is a field of science in which you can download all of the tools you need to play and explore for free. While languages like Python are certainly superior in a structured classroom environment, the advantage GameMaker is that the drag-and-drop sets of events and actions that make up the programming language constitute a "palette" of potential actions that the game can take, putting the functionality on the table for the curious student to experiment with and explore.

Part of the reason why I'm bringing this up now is that I was recently thinking about some of the big problems with Computer Science in K-12. While Estonia is teaching <a href="http://developers.slashdot.org/story/12/09/04/2136256/estonia-to-teach-programming-in-schools-from-age-6">first-graders how to code</a>, the most Computer Science our kids in the US get is how to create documents in MS Word and Powerpoint. Computer Science is a subject that doesn't count towards graduation in most states, doesn't have a standardized test that administrators can use to evaluate it, and is difficult to teach if the instructors are not intimately familiar with the technology and methods of the craft. Despite being one of the most diverse programs in colleges opening doors to the fastest growing job sector in the world, Computer Science is still seen as not worth the time to introduce to kids (or to train teachers) before they reach college.

While there are lots of reasons to love Massively Open Online Courses, the one that I think is the most striking is that is that they can completely go over the heads of the school system. Anyone who really wants to pursue advanced studies in computing has the opportunity to do so whether they're in "formal" MOOCs like Coursera and Udacity, or "informal" MOOCs like <a href="http://www.codecademy.com/">CodeAcademy</a> and <a href="https://projecteuler.net/">Project Euler</a>. While the most popular MOOCs are generally taught at a college level, we can still develop environments that encourage learners to jump in and explore - MOOCs where the only outcome is play. Unfortunately, because the people we <em>really</em> need to reach are the primary school students, privacy laws and IRBs research involving children (the most dangerous of human subjects) make attempting to explore that field very unattractive.

Reminds me of this great shirt tweeted from <a href="http://mozillafestival.org/">MozFest</a>: <a href="https://secure.flickr.com/photos/29677268@N06/8170523077/">"I would love to change the world, but they won't give me the source code."</a> I know that feel.
