---
layout: post
title: How do you assess your professors?
---

*This post was prepared as a response to the two papers <strong>College Students' Perceptions of How Instructors Convey Credibility (Myers and Bryant 2004)</strong><sup>1</sup> and <strong><a href="http://www.isetl.org/ijtlhe/articleView.cfm?id=115">How Do Faculty Experience and Respond to Classroom Conflict? (Meyers, et al. 2006)</a></strong><sup>2</sup> as part of the Fundamentals in Teaching Workshop: Establishing Authority and Credibility in the Classroom.*

Throughout my years as a college student, I've had and heard stories of professors of all sorts. The running average is that most professors are viewed as "benevolent dictators" - generally agreeable individuals who want to see their students succeed, but when push comes to shove, the word of the professor is final. In general, instructors fall on a sliding scale from either being considered an adversary who needs to be defeated in order to pass the class to a mentor who sees the student not necessarily as an equal, but as a professional adult who deserves respect and recognition. The latter is the kind of professor that students recommend to their friends, and while the competition of the research culture may be fierce, I maintain the belief that students make for much tougher judges than a professor's peers reviewing their journal submissions.

While I consider myself lucky that I've never had a professor I would consider "bad", I do have my favorites, and I felt a lot of my own feelings about how <em>I</em> judge my professors resonating in the report presented by Myers and Bryant (sadly, the paper<sup>1</sup> is not publicly available online, so you'll have to hunt it down in your library). In short, they found that there were common traits in behaviors that students considered to be indicative of credible and trustworthy professors... traits such as knowledgability, openness, transparency, consistency, and accommodation. Professors who demonstrate that they have both the technical knowledge of their discipline as well as "soft", people skills are the ones that students are more likely to think of less like a teacher and more like a mentor.

Students who don't have faith in their professors' credibility are less inclined to respect their authority, manifesting themselves in what Meyers calls disruptions<sup>2</sup> (not Myers<sup>1</sup> - these two authors have an unfortunate name collision). These disruptions range from passive infractions such as skipping, sleeping, or showing up late to class to active challenges to authority such as disputing grades and questioning the instructor's teaching style. These disruptions were more common (surprise!) in classes where the professor's teaching was primarily focused on passive learning and whose methods of assessment were ambiguous, unclear, or opaque. Professors who did experience disruptions were able to maintain their credibility by being open and mindful to student issues and concerns rather than ignoring them or referring them to administrative channels.

A classroom environment conducive to learning is characterized by a sense of mutual respect on both sides of the aisle. Both the professor and the students put a great deal of time and effort into the acts of running and attending a class. When either side feels as though the other isn't recognizing that effort, tensions escalate, time is wasted, and what should be professional relationships are marred by a lack of communication and respect. As the facilitators of the classroom, the professor is responsible for ensuring that the environment and the character they present to students is welcoming, engaging, and establishes cohesion and relevance with their curriculum and career plans - otherwise they shouldn't be surprised when a student decides to leave the class 20 minutes early to spend their time more productively elsewhere.

 <sub>﻿﻿Myers, S. A., &amp; Bryant, L. E. (2004). College Students’ Perceptions of How Instructors Convey Credibility. Qualitative Research Reports in Communication, 5(4), 22-27.

 <sub>﻿Meyers, S. A., Bender, J., Hill, E. K., &amp; Thomas, S. Y. (2006). How Do Faculty Experience and Respond to Classroom Conflict? International Journal of Teaching and Learning in Higher Education, 18(3), 180-187.</sub>

