---
layout: post
title: A Dash of Escapism
tags: blog
---

Yesterday, I checked out the anime series <em><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kids_on_the_Slope">Kids on the Slope (Sakamichi no Apollon)</a></em>, a relaxing romance drama about an introverted braniac who comes out of his shell by playing in a jazz band with some of his friends from school. Being a fan of both jazz and anime, the show was a real treat, as it was great to see songs and artists that I was familiar with being used as plot points throughout the series. And like most anime, it captivated me from the first time I watched the OP track to the closing of the show's finale.

Part of what I loved most about my childhood was escaping into the colorful worlds dreamed up by the creators of video games, comic books, and cartoons, and I don't think I'm alone in that. From science fiction to high fantasy, I loved it all. As I got older, my tastes drifted from fantastical adventures to down-to-earth dramas. I started to gravitate to stories that take place "twenty minutes into the future", focusing on character development, socio-political commentary, and supernatural elements. I wanted escapism that was more closely aligned with my own reality, and ended up finding a surprising comfort in the genre of slice-of-life anime. These stories, such as <em><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucky_Star_%28manga%29">Lucky Star</a></em>, focus on idealized friendships and interactions in the most mundane of settings. While they naturally appeal to the teenage desire to "belong", they do so in a way that live-action Western sitcoms with the same premise does not. While sitcoms focus on gags and drama, slice-of-life anime puts the viewer in the experience by conveying and romantacizing the appreciation for the simple things in life.

When I was in college, I had adopted the view that I should stop trying to escape into the worlds dreamed up by others and focus on expressing myself instead. My belief was that anything I did should ultimately result in an artifact that can be shared with the world. This was most apparent in my comic series, but I eventually gave up on comics and stopped drawing because it just wasn't working out. I was never a "bad" artist, but I figured that my talents for programming would be better spent on more interactive forms of artwork and expression. A number of niche game development communities picqued my interest, including genres such as <a href="http://renpy.org/">Visual Novels</a> and <a href="http://roguebasin.roguelikedevelopment.org">Roguelikes</a>. While it was always fun reading the documentation on good game development theory and practices, I could never really pull through when it came to the execution. My heart was never really in the games I was trying to make - I was mostly just making up for the fact that I closed out one form of escapism and forced myself into another. It obviously didn't work since I still haven't completed a single game that I've started, and that's not exactly a record I'm proud of.

One thing I realized after watching <em>Kids on the Slope</em> is that unlike other shows I've seen, this one did not have me wishing I had a different life or pursued a different career, which I think had more to do with the time in my life in which I watched it than any of the content itself. I've said on many occasions that I would have happily given up my intellect and computer knowledge to be able to draw or play music like the artists that I was friends with back during my primary school years, but things are different now that I have started Grad School. Especially now that I have had the opportunity to teach, I've developed a sense of passion and satisfaction for my life that I wouldn't want to trade for anything. I have a community of great friends and colleagues that make my work worthwhile, and I don't really feel like I need to escape anymore. And that feels pretty liberating.

If you're interested in anime, jazz, or romance stories, you can catch <em>Kids on the Slope</em> on <a href="http://www.hulu.com/kids-on-the-slope">Hulu</a>. It was a fun ride, and I really just wanted to share it here!
