---
layout: post
title: Next Semester's Schedule, No CSC
tags: blog
---

*While I normally wouldn't spend a blog entry talking about the classes I intend to sign up for, this is the latest of the required blog posts for the <a href="http://stars.csc.ncsu.edu/people/91/blog/">STARS blog</a>, so there's nothing I can do. Either way, this should be a rather interesting post.*

As a Ph.D. student, I don't actually have to take very many "classes". Full-time enrollment is 9 hours per semester, and the Ph.D. program only specifies six mandatory classes for the entire 4 to 8 years of the program: seven if you count Graduate orientation. Instead, after getting all of these courses out of the way, they expect me to pay the University tuition for the pleasure of signing up for 9 credit hours of what they call "research credits", which amounts to getting credit for doing what I have to do anyway as part of my job. I'm not really at a point yet where I find that a desirable course of action.

As an interdisciplinary student (Computer Science and Education), one of the biggest challenges in my career was coming up to speed with the research and methodologies of the "other" department. On my own initiative, I had to look up papers and attend conferences in order to figure out what the buzzwords and trends were among the heavy hitters in the field. While most of this was made possible thanks to the unyielding support of the network of colleagues that I've built over the past year (thanks Barbi!), my coverage of all of the possible material was informal and incomplete. It's not my fault - there's just a lot to cover, and many people spend an entire undergrad learning it. I'm just catching up.

Then I came to an epiphany: I'm still in <em>school</em>. They teach <em>classes</em> on this stuff. I decided to browse the College of Education's various course catalogs and found a number of extremely classes that I would be very interested in attending. So this semester, I will be taking two courses from the College of Education: <a href="http://www2.acs.ncsu.edu/reg_records/crs_cat/ECI.html#ECI%20716">ECI 716 Design and Evaluation Of Instructional Materials</a> and <a href="http://www2.acs.ncsu.edu/reg_records/crs_cat/ED.html#ED%20700">ED 700 Introduction to Research Design in Education</a> (the final 3 hours will still be research credits, since three 700-level courses is just too many).

ECI 716, as the name suggests, is a course focused on the design and evaluation of educational resources, with the key word I'm interested in being <em>evaluation</em>. Science is all about assessment, since if things can't be assessed, they can't be improved. Part of the research I expect to do next year focuses on using machine learning techniques to automatically improve learning resources. How can I possibly automate this improvement if I can't evaluate them myself? While I've been taking one-day workshops on subjects like these, I believe that a full, semester-long course on the subject will prove to be a very enlightening experience.

One thing that troubles me is the fact that this course, like many courses in the College of Education, is entirely online. I've never really enjoyed online courses, but seeing as how they are something that is growing, and that technology is part of what is making them grow, it's not in my best interest to stay away from them simply because they don't work for me. I'm going to make an intentional effort to get what I need from this class in terms of interaction with my peers and with the course material, and hopefully this will help me break my resistance to the medium in the future.

However, the second course is the one I'm <em>really</em> excited about taking. Since I'm going to be doing research that will be judged by Educational researchers, I need to know how experiments are designed and assessed in this field. While my advisor has been helping me informally to develop my research methodology, ED 700 will be my first formal introduction to methods of inquiry at a Graduate level. One thing that's always frustrated me about the Computer Science Department is that we <em>don't</em> have a formal class in how to conduct research, and I think that's a problem (for reasons that I'll save for a future blog entry). Even though the class only meets once a week (meaning it will probably be a hybrid course), I'm looking forward to seeing where it takes me. Unlike ECI 716, this class is restricted to Doctoral Students in Education, meaning that I might end up having to do some begging to get enrolled in the course.

While I'm not above begging, in an ideal case I wouldn't need to stoop so low. As much as being in a "foreign" department benefits me, I benefit their department much in the same way. In the same way my horizons are broadened by being among a different culture of researchers, I provide a fresh perspective from another discipline myself, and everyone is enriched by the experience. This is among the first steps to ending disciplinary silos and embracing the global thinking that STARS tries to inspire in the first place.

