---
layout: post
title: Single-Topic Blogs
tags: blog
---

<a href="http://tumblr.com">Tumblr</a> has always fascinated me. Like I've mentioned before in a previous post, I feel like Tumblr is <a href="http://isharacomix.org/2012/12/05/bring-your-own-identity">social blogging done right</a>, but I've never been able to put my finger on it until now. I recently created a bunch of Tumblelogs to serve as my course websites for the MOOCs and other classes I've started taking this year, and now I've gotten closer to the ever-elusive "why". Why does Tumblr mystify me so?

The most immediately interesting part of Tumblr culture has always been the reblogging. While reblogging exists on Wordpress, where a blog author can post a snippet of text from one blog with a link to the original content, the comments and favorites on each reblog are not shared with the original post. On Tumblr, it's more advanced - rather than simply creating a new post with a link to the old one, each of the reblogs are <em>living copies</em> of each other. No matter which instance you come across, they all keep track of the same trail of reblogs, favorites, and comments making it possible to track where the conversation and how it spreads. In fact, Tumblr generally rejects the idea of comments as we commonly know them, preferring that Tumblrites share and remix one anothers' posts rather than simply leaving a comment and running off. As an Open Source zealot and social media scholar, this really resonates with me.

However, if there's one thing I find even more interesting than reblogging, it's the concept of "asking". Most Tumblrs have an "ask me anything" page where users are able to pose questions to the blog authors, with responses appearing as posts in the blog. Unlike a Wordpress blog where all of the comments are written in response to the blog posts that already exist, this form of meta-commenting allows the blog audience to <em>prompt</em> posts from the author on topics that they care about. Entire blogs have been built around this concept, appropriately referred to as "ask blogs". These blogs are often a form of role-playing powered by audience participation, where the readers learn about the characters by asking questions and having the author respond either through text or pictures. Maybe I'm just weird, but I think that is the coolest thing ever, and from a research point of view, sometimes I feel like I would have more to write about if people would ask me about what I do. Even the folks who have contacted me through the contact form of this blog have either been spammers or people asking me about software that I've written years ago. I've gotten one sincere contact request, and I wonder if that is just due to the culture that Wordpress has built in its tenure as a blogging environment.

So I should pack up and leave Wordpress right?

The problem with social networks is that they all have the same weakness: they all need people. Different people congregate on different networks, and in order to maximize the benefit derived from a social network, you need to go where the people in your field go. I'm lucky that the folks who study MOOCs, educational technology, and social media are all very active on Twitter. Even though I think IRC and Usenet are a better place to communicate, that doesn't do me much good if the people in my field are somewhere else, now does it? I've looked around, but I haven't been able to find a very strong base of people in my field on Tumblr, meaning that even if I did migrate to the other platform, it wouldn't necessarily result in an increase in visibility or interaction. I've worked hard to build what I have here, so dropping it all just to go to a platform that's more "hip" would just be irresponsible.

The most compelling reason I have to migrate would be to consolidate my blogging to a single platform. I've finally reached the point where I don't have to get e-mail updates from Wordpress or Twitter because logging into them on a daily basis has become part of my routine and getting e-mail would just be redundant. I see the updates on my Wordpress dashboard when I log in, and I get Twitter updates through my Nexus and gFeedLine. I log on to Tumblr when I have something to post and I log on to Facebook to see what others have posted, but I log on to Wordpress subconsciously and for no reason at all. Maybe as the year moves along, I'll develop a habit for logging in to Tumblr and checking my dashboard. However, each additional service I have to remember to check on acts as another barrier to interaction.

Maybe having an army of single-topic blogs focused on the individual classes I'm taking isn't such a bad thing. While I could just put everything on this blog under its own category, having these more directed portfolios sequestered off from the rest of the main site helps avoid clutter. After the class is over and the interaction has run its course, the next problem is the archival of these portfolios. I'll cross that bridge when I come to it, but I already wonder what the best approach would be... PDF? XML? A plain HTML replica of the original Tumblr site? I haven't the foggiest clue, but I do enjoy having problems to solve.
