---
layout: post
title: On the topic of time...
tags: blog
---

I do a lot of things. I'm president of my Linux Users Group and attend every one of our weekly meetings. I'm a volunteer with the STARS Computing Corps. I'm secretary and webmaster for the local section of the IEEE. I run the Graduate Student Association and run a monthly reading group for Graduate Students. On top of all of that, I take a full load of classes, teach two lab sections, and still (presumably) do research and scholarship. They say that graduate school is when you finally discover where your limit is, and I'm stretching it, to be sure.

I've already had a lot of things fall to the wayside in the short time of starting this semester off. #oldsmooc and #ds106 were simply too much for me to bear, being highly engaging and interactive connectivist MOOCs. During winter break where I struggled to find things to do, they seemed like really good ideas, but as soon as classes started, I practically had the wind knocked out of me and decided I had to make some cuts. While I was certain that these MOOCs were going to be valuable for my research, they were unrealistic from the outset. I may or may not stick with #ioe13, since there's very little for me to learn a course about Open Source and Education, though I like how it's a more casual, self-paced course, meaning that I don't have to give up just yet.

Social Network Analytics was pushed back to March, and that's the course I think will be the most immediately beneficial to my work - hopefully there is more focus on the Social Network part than the data-mining, since I've got two semesters of that under my belt already. It's a shame that the whole MOOC thing didn't work out, but since I'm taking a full load of blended classes, it's probably better not to overwhelm myself. As a traditional, advanced student, I'm not really the target audience for these classes anyway, so if I participate, I should really go for some of the less technical courses as a form of entertainment.

While I'm still wrestling with a "full load" of classes, they have been folding very effectively into my research plan for the year. I've got a class on research theory and teaching theory, which have been grounding me in the literature, along with my more exploratory course at Duke that's giving me a bunch of brilliant ideas. I've got a concrete goal in place, so I know exactly how to align the project-oriented assessments for these courses around my own research plans. It's hard to express how wonderful it feels to be making progress to something that might become a dissertation at some point. All my career, I've wondered if I'd be able to come up with anything rigorous enough to be considered a dissertation, and now I feel like it's just within my reach.

Lots of people tell me that they just don't have the time to get involved with things like LUG, IEEE, and PFL. They ask me how I manage to find time to do all of the things I do. If this blog post is any indication, it's that I don't find time... <strong>I make it</strong>. My graduate studies, my research, the confidence that I'm where I belong, <em>I wouldn't have any of that without prioritizing my time with these social groups</em>. I attribute everything I've come up with to the communities to which I belong, from my interdisciplinary contacts through PFL to the motley crowd of people I follow on Twitter. Having a network of people to share my ideas with for feedback, learn from their experiences, and to support me through this little adventure has played a crucial role of keeping my morale up in spite of the challenges that have come up over the past year and a half.
