---
layout: post
title: Perserverance... or Stubbornness?
tags: blog
---

This week was supposed to be all about #moocmooc, but ever since I've started, it seems like nothing in my life is going right. Sunday was awesome! I was excited. Everyone was! Even after the #oldsmooc kick-off fiasco put a damper on things for Monday, I still resolved that that wasn't going to get in the way of my participation in #moocmooc for the rest of the week. But things just kept falling apart again and again... and again.

After the #moocmooc chat on Tuesday night, I head out to the bar to have a social night with the <a href="http://lug.ncsu.edu">LUG</a>, and since our former president was heading to California to work for Google, he was giving away old computers that he wasn't using anymore.

I got one and took it straight home to tear into it. For the most part, it was working - I had to attach the hard drive myself, but that was worth learning anyway, so I took it all in stride. Since I didn't invest any money in it, I had to invest some time so that I would value the machine as more than a commodity. For a while, I played with the hard drive, but every time I booted it up, the system said that it couldn't find a hard drive! So to test it, I took out the hard drive, put it in my old machine, installed Linux on it, and put it back. It still said that it couldn't find a hard drive, but it booted anyway. It still says that... crazy thing.

As this computer had much newer equipment than the old surplus machine I got, I wanted to install the OS while the actual hardware was connected. I would have used my liveUSB to do so, but this machine doesn't support booting from USB. I would have used a CD, but the CD drive was busted. So I was out of luck for a while until I realized that I could trade the CD drives between my two machines. I figured that as often as I reinstall the operating system, I couldn't keep moving the hard drives back and forth. So I worked right on that, working my fingers to the bones unscrewing the cradles, rescrewing them, and setting the machines up right. After I had everything seated, I was glowing with pride at how I solved the problem, and then when I hit power... nothing happened.

This is a computer hackers worst nightmare... silence when the power switch is hit. I was sure I ended up killing the motherboard. As a good scientist, I unplugged all the drives and set the machine back up the way it was to begin with, but to no avail. I was a sobbing mess, doing what I could to make sure that <em>at least</em> the old computer was still going to be OK. I put the machine in the corner of the room and didn't even manage to get in bed until 3 in the morning. I had put nearly six hours of time into that machine, going to bed certain that I had just ruined a gift from a friend in that time.

A few things contributed to my frustration. That I had resolved to participate more in #moocmooc and still ended up blowing off the night playing with my computer. That it was actually working, and then I had to go and bite off more than I could chew. That the machine had died and I had no idea what was going on - I didn't get any feedback on what I could have ruined, leaving me in a state of guessing. If there's one thing I know for a fact, it's that I absolutely <em>hate</em> being in a state of guessing.

Unlike the MOOC failure earlier, I attributed this entire fiasco to my inexperience and my stubbornness, a deadly combination. For me, problems exist to be solved, and I only stop in one of two cases - if I succeed, or if I end up so deep in the hole that it ends up caving in on top of me. While perseverance is supposedly a noble trait, I have to be a <em>ruined mess</em> before I give up. Even getting up that morning, I still had to play with the machine a little more, futilely trying to breathe life into the machine. After ranting and raving on IRC for a while, one member of the channel casually asked if the power switch was connected to the motherboard.

It wasn't. Whoops. Plugged it in, installed Linux, wrote today's blog post.

What did I learn from this? First of all, that I'm not alone. Even though you feel alone, slaving away at a computer at 1 in the morning, when the sun rises, so do the people in your network. It's not worth it to cut them out of the picture. My friends have technical skills that I don't have when it comes to hardware, but working together, our collective knowledge is more powerful and directed. Secondly, I'm very impatient, and that's why I was up at 1 in the morning slaving away at a computer. I had no business tossing everything aside to work on this thing. With all of the online classes I'm taking this semester, budgeting my time is priority #1.

I'm learning a lot about myself this week despite not really being able to participate in #moocmooc. The week is half over and I haven't participated in any of the activities, not the Google Doc on Monday or the Video on Tuesday. I swear today I'm going to get back in the game. I have to, because tomorrow is the first day I teach this semester, and while I'm willing to compromise all the MOOCs in the world, I don't compromise my teaching.
