---
layout: post
title: LambdaMOO...C?
tags: blog
---

There's lots of nostalgia for the simpler days of gaming. With all of these photo-realistic 3D games that captivate us for hours on end flooding the marketplace, the appeal of 8-bit retro graphics is still a soft-spot for some folks. With games becoming more formulaic and less creative with each successive generation, passionate old school fans cling to their cartridges or turn to emulators to relive the golden age of gaming. However, not even the oldest DOS game can hold a candle to the first stakeholder in this long-lived gaming ecosystem - the glorious days of the text-based MUD.

MUDs, or <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MUD">Multi-User Dungeons</a>, are interactive, multi-player, text-based virtual worlds where players take part in high adventure, dramatic role-playing, and witty socialization. Very similar to text-based games like <em>Zork</em> and the <em>Colossal Cave Adventure</em>, these were very popular forms of gaming that - thanks to their text-based nature - were able to run effectively on low-end hardware over dial-up connections. Unlike modern games that constantly push the envelope of graphical potential, the text-based games were only bound by what could be represented through words. While many might consider this to be archaic, I've always found them far more potent when it comes to stimulating one's imagination. Not only do you have to use imagination to visualize the world, you also had to effectively communicate with the other players by explaining what your character was saying and doing, conveying their ideas and emotions without breaking the flow of the game.

Most original MUDs had their inspirations from <em>Dungeons &amp; Dragons</em> fantasy role-playing games, with the game itself being hard-coded in advance and some players playing the roles of "Wizards", administrators or referees capable of guiding the game to build up a deeper story for the participants. The computerized nature of the system made it possible to support multiple players simultaneously with AI-controlled monsters and randomly generated quests allowing players to grind and socialize with friends as they explored, while the Wizards were able to intervene to add flavor and flourish to the world so that it didn't become old-hat. However, because the game had to be recoded and recompiled to support new content, this made improvements slow and error-prone. There had to be a better way.

Enter <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TinyMUD"><em>TinyMUD</em></a>, whose claim to fame was the introduction of a sophisticated scripting language that allowed entities to be created and programmed from within the game itself. Referred to as "softcode" (to differentiate it from the core engine's "hardcode"), Wizards with basic coding knowledge were able to create monsters and items that responded to player triggers to create infinitely flexible and extensible adventures. <em>TinyMUD</em> launched a number of derivatives, many still in use today, such as <a href="http://www.tinymush.net/index.php/Main_Page"><em>TinyMUSH</em></a> and <a href="www.pennmush.org"><em>PennMUSH</em></a>. In fact, by extending the right to create to advanced players, these games were able to support user-generated content to keep the world growing in a sustainable way. MUDs were hardly massive, but still serve as the precursors to modern-day MMORPGs.

One of the biggest of these MUDs to hit the mainstream was a game by the name of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LambdaMOO"><em>LambdaMOO</em></a>, a "social" MUD. Rather than role-playing in a high-fantasy or science-fiction world, people just came together to chat and program toys on occasion. It's like a chat room with a programming minigame on the side. <em>LambdaMOO</em> had its fair share of controversy with some malcontents allowing the relative anonymity of the community to bring out their worse. However, for the most part it was a pretty good group. It's just a shame I never got to participate before the MUD fans finally moved on.

Where am I going with this? Well, if you think about it, this is very familiar to another online game that got rather overhyped during its heyday... a little thing called <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Life"><em>Second Life</em></a>. <em>SL</em> came with some pretty wild promises of moving society into a new age of online interaction. Businesses and Universities started creating virtual campuses so that people could visit and interact with one another online. Classes were taught in the virtual world. It was possible to make objects, program them, and even sell them as in-game virtual goods. I remember the hype and was never really impressed. Despite being a technical marvel, it has fallen by the wayside and isn't particularly relevant anymore.

What was wrong with Second Life? Well, mostly the fact that it limited itself by the 3D environment that it tried to produce. Unlike MUDs, you couldn't just get away with creating "Object #313" and naming it "Chair". You had to model it, and then you had to program it to ensure that it interacted well with the visual world. The clunky interface and awkward-looking avatars made it hard to really get immersed in the world, turning it from a revolution into little more than a novelty. I'm on record as saying that even <em>Minecraft</em> works better as a virtual world for interaction because the building is so intuitive.

But MUDs have a few more things going for them that makes them stand out, which is why I think it would be fun to give a <em>LambdaMOO<strong>C</strong></em> a shot. Because of the built-in programming language, there is already an immediate value for Computer Science students, but the focus on textual representation of the world provides interesting opportunities for students in the Humanities. Students could create recreations of historical sites and role-play as important figures to create an interactive display of a historical event. They can write their own works of poetry or prose and post them on a message board to get anonymous feedback. They can create intricate mazes and puzzles requiring travelers to learn and demonstrate some technique in order to get out. The possibilities are endless, and the multi-user component has already been taken care of.

It would be cool. If no one else does it, I might just have to try it out myself.
