---
layout: post
title: Let's Make - The End of 2013
---
During Thanksgiving, I tried out the [whole livestreaming my development thing](http://isharacomix.org/2013/12/02/twitch-post-mortem) and was pretty happy with the results. In the meantime, I've been doing some research into the game development community and discovering that developers streaming their work on Twitch is not as unusual as I first thought it was.

I visited [/r/gamedev/](http://reddit.com/r/gamedev), a subreddit for game developers, and discovered that apparently people ask about developer livestreams enough for them to have set up a link in the sidebar to a [website that tracks livestreamers](http://blog.lunarenigma.com/streamers/)! Not only that, apparently your profile on the [one game a month](http://onegameamonth.com) also has a place to promote your streaming channel. This alone was enough to really improve my outlook on streaming my work. I might not be breaking new ground, but at least I'm not doing something that people don't find useful.

I haven't gotten around to watching developer livestreams other than Bartwe's, but I plan to do some research on what folks find helpful about livestreams. I was originally under the impression that my one-hour livestreams from the TVTropes game jam were too long to be useful, but I don't think that development is something that many people would watch if they were specifically trying to learn some technique. From what little I've read, it's something that aspiring game developers would watch during their off-time, so it's important to be productive and informative while also being an entertaining performer. Furthermore, the thing that makes other livestreamers popular is finding ways to interact with their audience - I am highly interested in using the time where I stream to answer questions and have discussions with folks.

So perhaps having a regular streaming hour every night would be a positive thing, especially if I position it less about the video recording and more about being in the NOW of the programming and discussion. For my *Let's Make: The End of 2013*, I'm not going to worry nearly as much about streaming with regularity. Instead, I'll stream when I'm in the mood and won't when I'm not. I agree that having a regular schedule makes it easier for your followers to carve out time to pay attention, but trying to make a game and telling yourself not to program when you really want to is kind of demotivating, especially during a holiday break when I really want something to do. I want to program because I enjoy programming, and despite enjoying it, I don't program very often. It's really sad that I stop myself from doing the things I want to do for arbitrary reasons: that needs to come to an end.

One problem that still remains, however, is that I am terrible at promoting myself. Whether its research or game development, I've gotten so shy about promoting my work to other people because of my track record of failed or abandoned ideas. Even #8bitmooc, a project that I was completely dedicated to, has fallen to the wayside. It's a bit of a chicken and egg problem: having people take you seriously is a great way to stay motivated to do something, but people don't take you seriously until you've done something. Good ideas aren't enough - you have to deliver, and finding things that are personally motivating enough to do without funding or attention is difficult.
 
Anyway - as long as this particular streaming marathon is happening, it'll be on [my Twitch channel](http://twitch.tv/isharacomix), so if that's something that interests you subscribe and get announcements when I start streaming!

