---
layout: post
title: Conferences!
tags: blog
---

I've been doing conferences for the past four days, so I'm a little tuckered out. This week I went up to Virginia Tech for the Conference on <a href="http://www.cider.vt.edu/conference/">Higher Education Pedagogy</a> (#chep13) and then came back to Raleigh to attend <a href="https://opensource.ncsu.edu/FossFair2013">FOSS Fair 2013</a> (#fossfair2013). I think I scared away everyone on Twitter who was following me because of all that nonsense, because I've been doing nothing but livetweeting for the past 96 hours. I think that was more Twitter than even I was prepared to handle.

Normally after conferences, I come back to the blog to recap everything, but the more things that go on, the harder that job is to do. So here come the high points. If you want to see the play-by-play, I've storified them <a href="http://storify.com/IsharaComix/chep2013">here</a> and <a href="http://storify.com/IsharaComix/foss-fair-2013">here</a>. Here I'm going to discuss the broader themes of the CHEP conference and the meta-discussion on social media because that's kind of my thing.

CHEP was an interesting event - as an Education conference, the event is not really about getting published in the proceedings so much as it is sharing research and experience reports with other instructors from around the world. Many of the talks had theoretical background information, but were grounded in tricks that attendees could immediately take away and apply in their own classes. Everything from gamification to using 3D virtual worlds to teaching a class on Zombies was discussed, and with three days running seven sessions in parallel at a time, I was guaranteed to find <em>something</em> that piqued my interest.

So let's start with the Social Media - despite my battery fighting a dying battle on day one of the conference, I was able to still Tweet for most of the day. I cranked my Tweet output up to 11 when I was able to get into the flow of using my tablet and keyboard, making me one heck of a force to be reckoned with. I've gotten much more comfortable Tweeting as a way of taking notes, since I find the post-conference Storify articles to be substantially more useful for going back than my research notebook, which I've mostly started using for sketching interface designs. If I was willing to take a little more time and energy, I could really improve the Storify experience by adding notes in between the Tweets to further elucidate on what I've been learning in MOOCs, conferences, and the like.

Two talks that really stood out to me were the talks on using social media to encourage class discussion outside of class. While there have been lots of studies on trying to leverage Twitter in a classroom environment as a backchannel, using it as a conversation medium outside of class is something that I find very interesting. It puts students in contact with one another much more frequently than they would be otherwise - especially if they are grad students or interdisciplinary students who may not bump into one another very frequently. Furthermore, it opens the class to the world, allowing anyone interested to join in and comment on whatever happens to be happening!

Other topics worthy of note were those on gamification. My advisor gave a talk on grading by experience points, where students begin with a 0 and earn points to pass the course - encouraging mastery of course concepts rather than worrying over "losing points". Another talk discussed the idea of levelling up and getting achievements, focusing on personal development and growth during the course. One thing that has always bothered me are students and teachers who refer to 100% as "perfection" that can't be attained. I've always preferred to look at it as "mastery" which most certainly can be reached. That's a much more positive way to look at a grades, and the reason why I like the MOOC approach. Speaking of MOOCs, I was disappointed that there were no talks formally on the subject. I guess they're still too new to show up this year, but next year, maybe I'll be the one to give that talk!

Also on the topic of MOOCs, at FOSS Fair, I introduced my new project, the <a href="http://8bitmooc.org">#8bitmooc</a>. I'll discuss that in its own blog entry in due time. For now, I must sleep. And by sleep, I mean catch up on work. Because that's my life.

Oh gosh, I just realized I'm going to another conference this Friday. *dies*
