---
layout: post
title: EDM 2013
tags: blog
---

No... not Electronic Dance Music... Educational Data Mining! I'm in Memphis,
Tennessee with a great crowd of academics - the folks who are creepily spying
on students in order to teach them something.

Given the latest PRISM nonsense, that joke has some unfortunate connotations. :)

But seriously though - for the past three days, I've attended what is quite
possibly my favorite conference since I started doing this whole conference
thing. You've probably seen my Tweets. In fact, you also probably unfollowed me.
But this conference has been really engaging, enriching, and insightful. Even
before the conference started out, I checked out all of the [open access 
proceedings](https://sites.google.com/a/iis.memphis.edu/edm-2013-conference/)
so I could see exactly what I was in for, and found no less than 25 papers that
I need to read and integrate into my personal wiki.

I think the most striking thing about this conference is that the people here
are so friendly! EDM is a "new" conference, and they were founded on some pretty
solid principles, such as affordability, openness, and
supporting new young researchers. There is an ethos about the conference that I
haven't seen in many of the "bigger" conferences that I've attended, such as
SIGCSE. It's always the smaller conferences that I seem to enjoy, such as CHEP
(which I should really submit a proposal to) and the educational community at
LISA. The Python people keep telling me Pycon is like that. Maybe they're right.

I feel like the interdisciplinarity in EDM has been so much more authentic than
it was in conferences like SIGCSE. You have people who actually come from other
disciplines, such as eduational psychology, HCI, and economics! The talks show
how the data mining is not used as a cudgel that promises to solve everyone's
problems, but as an aid for discourse and discussion about new theories of how
people learn and interact with one another. Thanks to this conference, I feel
the ever elusive theme of my dissertation becoming clearer and clearer, and I've
gotten so many good ideas about my poor little #8bitmooc project which is still
trying to become something important! (protip: don't even bother trying to
pretend that you'll actually work on your projects in your hotel room. It won't
happen. It didn't happen for #8bitmooc)

However, to be honest, I think a big part of why I'm enjoying it is that I'm not
by myself. We have a bunch of people from the Center for Educational Informatics
here, so if I'm ever feeling like I'm out of my element, I can quickly retreat
to a comfortable circle of people I know. While I've always been afraid that
I would end up using this as a crutch, it's been very helpful for keeping my
spirits high. While I'm enjoying meeting new people at the conference, I'm
equally enjoying the time I spend with the people from my own lab. I won't lie,
most of the time, I leave conferences feeling really depressed, but so far I've
managed to keep my spirits up for most of this one. :)

I need a new rule to live by. Something like, "Do the things that make you a
happy human being. Don't do the things that make you a sad human being." That
sounds like a good rule for long living.

