---
layout: post
title: Such Dogecoin
tags: blog
---
You know, I was there when Bitcoin started. It was an innocuous post on Slashdot talking about this crazy dream some guys had. It was news when it hit dollar parity, and it took off like a rocket just recently. I missed that train, no big deal. Bitcoin interests me as a computer scientist and as someone with an interest in how computers affect human behaviors, and it's highly enjoyable to study the technical and social aspects to the phenomenon. But what I *never* expected to happen was the so-called "altcoin" craze. When I started looking at Bitcoins yesterday, I noticed *dozens* of Bitcoin competitors, all using the same underlying mechanics, but with much higher and faster payouts to reward early adopters. Since the source for Bitcoin is open, anyone can make an altcoin, and this is causing a pile of namespace pollution.

One that has enjoyed some press lately is an altcoin called "[Dogecoin](http://www.businessinsider.com/what-is-dogecoin-2013-12)" that takes the insanity to its logical extreme. Create a coin that capitalizes on a popular meme and profit will ensue! While I'd rather see a Billy Mays-inspired LOUDCOIN, Dogecoin is pretty awesome and has become ridiculously popular on Reddit, with "investors" flocking when they see the news and fleeing when they see the reality - Doges just wanna have fun.

However, there's something behind the childish grammar and dreams of lunar exploration that really speaks to me, and that's the number of transactions that occur between individual shibes. Dogecoin is particularly popular on Reddit in the form of "tips", where when someone answers a question particularly well, you can give them a couple hundred DOGE as a way of saying "thank you!" that's a bit more permanent than an upvote, and has a feel-good quality to it.

I've always wanted to get in on the crowdfunding thing. I love [Gittip](http://gittip.com), which I've seen lots of tech bloggers using to raise money to go to conferences so that they don't have to pull it out of their living expenses. While I genuinely adore the idea of being supported directly by readers who care about what you do, as someone who is privileged enough to have a well-paying job, I can't really bring myself to ask for more money. Not to mention there's a lot of friction involved in setting up a Gittip account, since you have to connect your bank account and commit to a weekly payout to your recipients.

Dogecoins, on the other hand, has very little friction. Even when CPU mining, it's not unusual to get whole numbers of coins when mining in a pool, so with a little bit of computing power, you could install the software, earn some DOGE, and then send it to the person you want to tip. Dogecoin's novelty is encouraging folks to try it out, and most of the people involved aren't trying to turn a profit.

I maintain that the best way to make money is to *do something that other people care about*. I'm seriously preparing to livestream some game development next year, and I'm thinking about setting up my own [Dogecoin address](http://isharacomix.org/doge) for folks to contribute to if they find my work helpful in any way. It's a low-friction way to indicate your thanks because it's *meaningful* without necessarily being *burdensome*. When it comes to shibe, it's the thought that counts, which is appropriate considering Christmas is this week.

