---
layout: post
title: Reacting to the Past
tags: blog
---

This past weekend, I was the richest man in the world. I had dinner with abolitionists, argued with slaveholders, and got to pal around with Charles Dickens and Walt Whitman. I was <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Jacob_Astor">John Jacob Astor</a>, playing a role in a pedagogical strategy for deep learning referred to as <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reacting_games">Reacting to the Past</a>. Last weekend, a regional RTTP conference was held at Duke University, and since I had a free weekend, I decided to drop by and check it out.

RTTP is an interesting teaching technique that takes the philosophy of serious games but does it all in person and face-to-face just like "proper" old school games like <em>Dungeons &amp; Dragons</em>. Rather than creating video games that attempt to teach students techniques in a way that is customized for them, RTTP focuses on the social aspect of games, and to remarkable effect, too! I have to say that I was a bit wary going into it, and even I had a hard time working up the courage to participate on the first day, but by the end of the game, even I threw myself into it and was quite proud of how seriously I ended up taking it!

So let's discuss how a reacting game works. When the game starts, each student is assigned the role of a historical figure, like John Jacob Astor or Leonardo da Vinci, and throughout the course of the game, they are asked to give speeches and ask questions as if they were that character on pressing issues of the time. In our case, we played the role of traditionalists and abolitionists during the heated age of antebellum America, discussing the very controversial topic of slavery, started off with a literary forum on the narrative of Frederick Douglass. Over the course of several class periods, the students provide their views of the work in question, and then at the end, come to a vote on two resolutions that can make or break the game for the various characters and factions involved. Each character has individual goals that that the player has to prioritize in an effective way, winning the favor of other characters with moving oratory and clever backroom deals during in-character "social hours".

From the beginning, I saw the pedagogical beauty of the approach. As we know from my last blog entry, I love non-linear everything - especially non-linear learning. The best part about this teaching style is that it essentially says "Students: learn how to be this character" and doesn't provide any more specific goal than that. From that point on, the speeches and writings they undertake are done from the perspective of their character, and their audience is the group of their peers that they are trying to persuade. By being pressured by their peers - not the instructor - the students have to take their role seriously lest they be humiliated by their classmates, and by giving them a goal to undertake, it gives the learning a purpose that is more motivating than any grade or other carrot an instructor could concoct.

While other players held roles of very defined characters such as John C. Calhoun and Sojourner Truth, I had the pleasure of playing an "Indeterminate", a character with a very loosely-defined role and no real love for either of the factions. This gave me a lot of freedom, even if it made the role a bit frustrating to play at times. For example, my character didn't care one way or the other about the slavery issue, but was mostly concerned with preserving the strength of America as a world power - as such, I was able to win the bulk of my support primarily from the "patriotic" slaveholders, even though I would have been just as sympathetic to the abolitionists cause had they found any reason at all to speak to me. The unpredictability and the potential to drift substantially away from how history ended up playing out made the game engaging and interesting, especially to me as a fan of historical fiction. The teaching moments in the game come from the students' post-mortem analyses of the game where they distinguish the differences between the game and history, giving them a strong point of reference for future assignments and examinations.

RTTP has been researched quite extensively, with a healthy bit of peer-reviewed literature of the effectiveness of the pedagogy. I was a bit wary of having to dive in and play a game for myself at this workshop, afraid that I would be totally out of my league as the engineer among the history professors in the area (my shining moment was when I indicated before anyone else that the instructor was wrong about the probability of a die roll). However, with my passion for the constitutional arguments around property law brought about for my copyright nerdiness, I still found a solid piece of ground to stand on while making my case... even if I ended up voting in favor of a resolution in support of making copyright stronger.

It was fun, and I'm glad I decided to go. While I won't be able to apply the pedagogy as designed in an engineering context, I'm sure I can generalize it enough to support my interests in abstract game design theory applied to instructional design.
