---
layout: post
title: Unsubscribed
---

Yesterday I unsubscribed from everything. Mailing lists, newsletters, social
network updates. I get anywhere between 50 to 200 e-mails every day, and for the
most part, I probably only read between three and five of them. And the ones I
read all have something in common: it's written by a human being I know and
directly addressed to me. For the longest time, I have subscribed to every
mailing list and newsletter on the topics that I think I might be interested in,
*just in case*. But do I ever read any of it? No. Do I ever go back in my
archives and look at them? No. All it does is fill up my inbox with a bunch of
noise, and yesterday, I actually missed a real e-mail from my advisor.

I decided enough was enough.

If you haven't had the chance to see
[Paul Jones' #noemail](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIvZv-6OsUQ) talk, it's a
really motivating discussion that makes you think about the role of e-mail and
how just like regular mail used to be for humans to communicate with humans
before junk mail showed up, e-mail was the same way. It used to be so cool to
meet someone who had a real e-mail address when it first hit the scene. Now,
e-mail addresses are basically used to identify individuals when they sign up
for online accounts, and so that they can send you reminders to visit the
accounts you make.

What a waste. 

For the past year, I've told everyone that the best way to absolutely get in
touch with me is using Twitter. I get so much e-mail that I simply don't even
want to check it sometimes. While newsletters and mailing lists were simply a
bad addiction I decided I had to drop cold-turkey, the other overwhelming
side of the equation comes from "reply-all" discussion threads where you have
people communicating at different levels in the conversation before everyone
sees everything they've received. It's a nuisance, at the very least.

Furthermore, I just have so many e-mail addresses it's hard to keep them straight!
NCSU! IsharaComix.org! IsharaComix.com! IEEE. ACM. ARRL. It'll get worse before
it gets better. With all of these accounts, it's hard to remember which ones I 
used to sign up for which services, and which people know which address in real
life. There is no single "Barry Peddycord III" e-mail address, which is why I've
done the unthinkable and started using social media in order to ensure that
people are able to find me.

Github has become a tremendous help in all of this. Using Github for my blog has
made me a tremendously happy human being, and storing my research notes there
has substantially improved my productivity. I kind of hate that I don't really
take many classes anymore, since I could have very well used Github to keep my
assignments and deadlines in order and, for classes that required me to keep a
blog, used *gh-pages* to make specific blogs without having to reserve new
subdomains for myself.

But the e-mail had to stop. I have over 11000 e-mails, and that's after deleting
8000 of the e-mails that came from mailing lists. Now my mailbox should quiet
down, and hopefully I'm not so densenstized to e-mail that I'll miss the greater
proportion of real messages that will be coming around in the near future.


