---
layout: post
title: What scares me about openness?
tags: blog
---

A while back, I engaged in a short conversation on Twitter about the definition of a "paper" in the academic sense of the word. After some back and forth, [he asked me something](https://twitter.com/ironfroggy/status/483445051222392832) that definitely made me stop and think for a bit. 

> as an academic yourself, would you find accessible discourse somehow threatening to credibility or your path?

For the longest time, I entertained the idea of running an actual, proper research blog - one where I discussed my day-to-day experiments, studies, plans, and ideas. I've always imagined that it might be an awesome way to turn academic research from something done in the secrecy of the computer lab into a public sort of inquiry that anyone would be free to benefit from. I'm not so bold as to claim that nobody has ever had this idea before or that doing so would make the world a better place, but I would personally be happier about my work if I was able to share my findings as I find them, rather than having to align my results with the annual timing of conferences in my field. However, there's always something stopping me from going forward with something like this, and it usually feels really petty and selfish.

The most selfish reason of all is the threat to my *academic priority*. Research is a competitive sport, regardless of what anyone else wants you to think. There is a lot of praise and reward for the researcher who gets their idea on how to solve a hard problem first, because then it behooves every other researcher in the same field to mention your result and how it's different in their prior works section, boosting your citation count for as long as the problem is worked on. Even though we are all collaborating in some sense of the word, the data and methods we create guarantee us a certain number of publications that we can ride on through parts of our career, and sharing any of that work early may end up compromising our ability to establish ourselves as the "first" ones to the goal.

It's not that I'm saying that other academics are so unscrupulous that they would steal ideas put on a blog without giving it credit. What I'm saying is that publishing results outside of conferences and journals creates these weird pieces of academic writing that *don't actually count for your career*. Assuming your breakthrough is put on a blog post, it may or may not be cited (because it's hard to cite blog posts given their tendency to vanish from the net), and even if it is cited, it won't count towards your impact factor as a scholar since it wasn't put in a peer-reviewed venue. What's even worse is that even though it can't count for you, it *can* count against you - if you publish something independently, you aren't allowed to re-publish it in a formal venue, so you essentially rob yourself of getting a "real" publication by striking it out on your own, yet other scholars are able to get such publications themselves by citing yours as "prior work". What's good for the field isn't necessarily good for the individual, so this creates pressure to stop us from doing our own thing away from the crowd - at least if we care about advancement in academia.

But there's more to it than that.

I just recently completed my ethics training which is required of everyone who gets money from the National Science Foundation and I noticed something interesting: it is a violation of ethical standards in science to "bypass" the peer-review system. This means that by publishing my results in a press release or on a blog before the scientific community has a chance to vet the results, I risk harm to the field and to the public. That's absolutely true.

There is an ever-present danger in any form of research of confirmation bias creeping into our work. We have hypotheses and beliefs about the world that we want to see through our work, and when you see results that slightly confirm these beliefs, it's easy to jump to the conclusion that you were right all along! Peer review, among other things, provides a quick check to filter out these kinds of genuinely honest mistakes. The purpose of peer review is to make sure that your research is relevant to the audience that it is about to be published to, that your methods are correct for answering the research questions you're asking, and that the conclusions you draw logically follow the results from the data. As science becomes increasingly politicized, it's very dangerous for a researcher (especially in more controversial fields) to publish results outside of peer-reviewed channels since it runs the risk of being reported in the news without the kind of nuance that would be necessary for it to make it into a conference or journal. This makes the researcher, their colleagues, their institution, and even their funding agencies look bad and threatens their already waning legitimacy. I can't trust that everyone who reads an open labbook will be able to tell that works in progress are works in progress, and perhaps I don't want to - there is a public benefit to releasing work only through refereed channels, even if it slows down the share of knowledge.

However that says *nothing* about the act of releasing work for review by other scientists early. Even if we completely cut out the "ignorant public" argument, the reason for not sharing late-breaking result with other researchers still stems from the threat to academic priority for discoveries. In a way, the peer review and conference system helps prevent researchers from queue-jumping, since their work won't count (as above) and they may risk public embarassment. However, this system is a double-edged sword: it ensures everyone gets an equal chance to publish their results first, but still prevents the rapid dissemination of results to the rest of the research community. I'm not even going to get into the fact that equal does not necessarily mean fair.

Finally, I bring up the last point - "why don't I just do this when I get tenure and I don't have anything to worry about anymore"? This is a joke answer I give to a lot of the political academic questions, and in spite of all of its problematic elements, it simply doesn't work for this one. Let's say that I decide as a tenured professor I decide that my lab is going to have an open research policy where we put our results in a public blog for the world to see... who am I screwing out of opportunities then?

My students.

It's easy to talk about protesting the academic system, but it's not all about me. How do my decisions affect my students? How will this affect my collaborators and change the perceptions of others who may want to collaborate with me in the future? Actions have consequences, and these are things we have to be mindful of before we start playing by our own rules. Maybe I just don't have enough clout yet to get away with it, but if clout is what makes this possible, what is *that* saying about the system? Furthermore, how might other academics careers be hurt if some radical openness change did take place?

I stand by one thing I believe: that openness is generally better for scientists, science, and the public. Perhaps not in the way I've written here, but that making research more accessible will be good for everyone. One way to make openness more appealing is to ensure that the standards that exist within the academic economy (priority, impact factor, tenure) are protected during a change to the standards. But this is not something that will happen quickly or without buy-in from the greater academic community. I do my little part by looking for brilliant research that appears in unconventional channels and being its advocate to my colleagues and superiors. But that's all I can do without threatening my own precarious position in this strange world we call academia.
