---
layout: post
title: Paperjam 2014!
tags: blog
---
This past weekend was the [Global Game Jam][jam], a 48 game development marathon
for people that don't need to sleep, eat, or shower. It's very similar to the
notion of [One Game a Month][1gam], encouraging people to create, prototype, and
deliver something fun without spending too much time trying to perfect their
dream project. The theme was pretty cool, about our perception of the world
being more about who we are than the way the world is, which tied in nicely to
the NC State site's local commitment to diversity and inclusion in game dev.
I even helped out by doing a [Twine][] workshop at the start of the event to
help folks who aren't programmers build some skills for the event.

I, of course, didn't participate. I was too busy with *#paperjam2014*!

It's been a long time since I've done any academic writing. Between teaching and
finding a project (and watching #8bitmooc kind of fall flat), I've been out of
the academic loop looking for a project to work on. Things are finally coming
together this year, though, since I've hopped aboard the *BOTS* project, an
educational game for teaching programming that has all the data I could ever
need. I spent this week developing a system for generating hints using the
behavior of the students in the game, which involved essentially writing an
interpreter for the game's language from scratch, in Python. It turned out that
after developing that interpreter, the analysis became ridiculously easy as all
of the data finally became internally consistent.

Dear grad students out there: make sure your systems are logging your data
correctly, since that's what you need to write your papers.

So we left after the keynote to do our own jam. A few of us in the lab are
writing papers for the 2014 conference on [Intelligent Tutoring Systems][ITS2014],
and while BOTS isn't really an ITS, we are using ITS techniques to make it a
better learning experience. I 100% believe that games can gain a lot by acting
more like tutoring systems, which is something I'm looking forward to incorporating
into my own game.

Speaking of which, I've been happy with my personal project, [Rules of War][war],
which I've been developing fairly consistently since this year started. Streaming
has proven to be tons of fun, I've posted some screenshots on every
ScreenShotSaturday, and I expect to have my first complete demo out in the wild
by the end of the month (just in time for the One Game a Month deadline)! I've
had plenty of game development on the table to keep me busy, entertained, and
in the mindset of programming, so I didn't miss much while doing #paperjam. :)

It feels good to be writing again. I finally feel like I'm back on track for my
Ph.D.


[jam]: http://globalgamejam.com
[1gam]: http://onegameamonth.com
[Twine]: http://twinery.org
[war]: http://github.com/isharacomix/rules-of-war
[ITS2014]: http://its2014.its-conferences.com/

